A R T I C L E I N F O Article history: Received 4 May 2020 Received in revised form 16 July 2020 Accepted 20 July 2020 Available online xxxx Evacuations in major disasters such as hurricanes involve complex decision-making and depend on several interrelated factors. Mass evacuation created traffic gridlocks with hours of added travel time in previous hurricane evacuations. To leverage this, shared mobility as an alternative evacuation strategy can ensure compliance to evacuation orders. Be- sides, previous evacuation studies examined evacuation decision-making for a given hurricane, however the empirical literature is inconclusive of what governs evacuation decision consistency of previous (evacuated or not) and future (will evacuate or not) hurricanes. As such, the purpose of this study is to explore the influence of personal social networks and day-to-day sharing activity on hurricane evacuation decision consistency and shared evacuation capacity (number of people with whom one will evacuate). By adopting a Personal Network Research Design (PNRD) framework and conducting an online survey of south Florida residents, the evacuation decision consistency of people is modeled using multinomial logistic regression method. An ego-centric social network analysis is also conducted which focuses on the survey respondents (egos) and the people in their close contacts (alters). Shared evacuation capacity is modeled using zero inflated Poisson (ZIP) approach. Tobit regression techniques are used to estimate the influence of day-to-day joint activities on shared evacuation decisions. Results showed that these variables are influenced by similarity in race, religion, marital status, bike ownership, use of social media and day-to-day shared activity. The age and income of people also significantly affect these decisions. The results will help in developing decision support frameworks for evacuation management applications and encourage emergency planners to promote shared evacuations in vulnerable communities.
In this paper we are concerned with multiscale modeling, control, and simulation of self-organizing agents leaving an unknown area under limited visibility, with special emphasis on crowds. We first introduce a new microscopic model characterized by an exploration phase and an evacuation phase. The main ingredients of the model are an alignment term, accounting for the herding effect typical of uncertain behavior, and a random walk, accounting for the need to explore the environment under limited visibility. We consider both metrical and topological interactions. Moreover, a few special agents, the leaders, not recognized as such by the crowd, are "hidden" in the crowd with a special controlled dynamic. Next, relying on a Boltzmann approach, we derive a mesoscopic model for a continuum density of followers, coupled with a microscopic description for the leaders' dynamics. Finally, optimal control of the crowd is studied. It is assumed that leaders aim at steering the crowd towards the exits so to ease the evacuation and limit clogging effects, and locally optimal behavior of leaders is computed. Numerical simulations show the efficiency of the control techniques in both microscopic and mesoscopic settings. We also perform a real experiment with people to study the feasibility of such a bottom-up control technique.
In this survey we consider mathematical models and methods recently developed to control crowd dynamics, with particular emphasis on egressing pedestrians. We focus on two control strategies: The first one consists in using special agents, called leaders, to steer the crowd towards the desired direction. Leaders can be either hidden in the crowd or recognizable as such. This strategy heavily relies on the power of the social influence (herding effect), namely the natural tendency of people to follow group mates in situations of emergency or doubt. The second one consists in modify the surrounding environment by adding in the walking area multiple obstacles optimally placed and shaped. The aim of the obstacles is to naturally force people to behave as desired. Both control strategies discussed in this paper aim at reducing as much as possible the intervention on the crowd. Ideally the natural behavior of people is kept, and people do not even realize they are being led by an external intelligence. Mathematical models are discussed at different scales of observation, showing how macroscopic (fluid-dynamic) models can be de- Giacomo Albi Dipartimento di Informatica, Università di Verona, Verona, Italy, e-mail: giacomo.albi@univr. it Emiliano Cristiani Istituto per le Applicazioni del Calcolo, Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, Rome, Italy, e-mail: e.cristiani@iac.cnr.it Lorenzo Pareschi (corresponding author) Dipartimento di Matematica e Informatica, Università di Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy, e-mail: lorenzo. pareschi@unife.it Daniele Peri Istituto per le Applicazioni del Calcolo, Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, Rome, Italy, e-mail: d.peri@iac.cnr.it 1 arXiv:1912.11628v2 [physics.soc-ph] 18 Mar 2020 2 Giacomo Albi, Emiliano Cristiani, Lorenzo Pareschi, and Daniele Peri rived by mesoscopic (kinetic) models which, in turn, can be derived by microscopic (agent-based) models.1
In this chapter, we discuss the mathematical modeling of egressing pedestrians in an unknown environment with multiple exits. We investigate different control problems to enhance the evacuation time of a crowd of agents, by few informed individuals, named leaders. Leaders are not recognizable as such and consist of two groups: a set of unaware leaders moving selfishly toward a fixed target, whereas the rest is coordinated to improve the evacuation time introducing different performance measures. Follower-leader dynamics is initially described microscopically by an agent-based model, subsequently a mean-field type model is introduced to approximate the large crowd of followers. The mesoscopic scale is efficiently solved by a class of numerical schemes based on direct simulation Monte-Carlo methods. Optimization of leader strategies is performed by a modified compass search method in the spirit of metaheuristic approaches. Finally, several virtual experiments are studied for various control settings and environments.
One of the most challenging problems during disasters involving crowds is pedestrian evacuation. It is very important in such situations to improve survival rates by getting all or most of the people out in the shortest possible time. Technological intervention through augmenting the evacuation process using an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) exhibits great potential in improving survival rates, but the exploration of this method is still in its infancy. Therefore, this study explores the potential of utilizing UAVs for crowd management during emergency evacuations. We conducted a rigorous study, using a simulation model featuring four UAVs and differing numbers of pedestrians, with use of two UAV guidance approaches: partial guidance and full guidance. The experimental results suggest that exploiting UAVs in crowd evacuation and following the partial guidance approach can lead to a more efficient evacuation process.
Evacuation systems are crucial for minimizing casualties and property losses during emergencies. Understanding evacuee behavior in overcrowded situations is essential for developing effective evacuation strategies. However, evacuating large crowds from buildings with multiple exits is a challenging problem, especially when the exits are asymmetrical and the crowds are dense. This paper proposes a novel two-dimensional cellular automaton model for multi-exit evacuation, which simplifies evacuee decision- making in an asymmetrical exit layout within dense crowds. The model introduces the dynamic counting area technique, which dynamically adjusts the size and shape of the counting area around each exit based on the evacuee density level. This technique plays a crucial role in preventing the creation of overlapping counting areas between exits, which often leads to overestimated average evacuation time, unit evacuation time, and travel distance. Comparative analysis with previous dynamic parameter models (DPM) reveals notable results: the model achieved an average evacuation time of 201.20 time steps, a unit evacuation time of 0.50 time steps, and a travel distance of 28204 steps. These findings demonstrate the effectiveness of the improved model in addressing evacuation imbalances caused by asymmetrical exit layouts or evacuee distributions. Moreover, the study highlights the pivotal role of evacuee density around exits in determining exit choices during densely crowded emergency situations. The improved model can be applied to various scenarios and settings where multi-exit evacuation is required, such as stadiums, airports, or shopping malls.
Crowded spaces are prone to accidents and many casualties in case of fire or other emergency situations. They can happen in large buildings or urban spaces. Predicting crowds' behavior is crucial for creating adequate simulators that practitioners can use for evaluating evacuation scenarios in such emergency cases. On the basis of a literature review of existing approaches to tackle this issue, a simulator called ModP was devised. A new model was added to allow the creation and configuration of different agent types. Some experiments were carried out using an easy syntax to provide the designers with a more realistic simulation. Preliminary results are presented and discussed. Trends and future directions as well as new developments are presented.
This paper studies an evacuation problem described by a leader-follower model with bounded confidence under predictive mechanisms. We design a control strategy in such a way that agents are guided by a leader, which follows the evacuation path. The proposed evacuation algorithm is based on Model Predictive Control (MPC) that uses the current and the past information of the system to predict future agents' behaviors. It can be observed that, with MPC method, the leader-following consensus is obtained faster in comparison to the conventional optimal control technique. The effectiveness of the developed MPC evacuation algorithm with respect to different parameters and different time domains is illustrated by numerical examples.
Trained evacuation leaders in emergency offer the potential for improved decision making and evacuation. Compared to victims, trained evacuation leaders can make educated assessments of the situation based on their training, knowledge of the facilities, and additional details about the incident, which enables them to guide victims in choosing a safe departure time and evacuation route. Despite a general understanding about the benefits of such leaders in evacuation, mass shooting cases require a separate attention because these cases are more complex with different behavioral decisions, not just running away, with a continuously changing source of the hazard source, the shooter. This study develops a simulation model package and evaluates the effect of trained evaluation leaders on the victim safety during an active shooter incident. The study leverages sophisti cated human motion dynamics models and human behaviors supported by past literature in an agent-based model. The study varies several parameters (e.g., occupancy, firing rates and gun range, and victims' decision of running or hiding) in this simulation to draw generalized conclusions on the leaders' impact on various scenarios. The results reveal general findings with several interesting points. Overall, increased leaders' presence contributes to fewer fatalities. Even few trained leaders, compared with none, can considerably improve victim safety. Even if leaders are not uniformly positioned, they still provide substantial benefits for victim's safety. The leaders' benefits were consistently found in various parametric studies (e.g., number of leaders, occupancy, leaders' strategic placement, gun range, and shooting rate) that support the mentioned findings.
A common problem for both architects and public security officials alike is how best to safely manage large numbers of people enclosed within confined spaces. With the prevalence of large gatherings of people, it is crucial for those ensuring the safety of the public to be able to analyze how best to manage large crowds. This project aims to provide a tool for modeling crowd dynamics factoring in the presence of "leader" individuals who can influence the behaviour of the crowd. This will allow for analysis of the effectiveness of leader placement on crowd control within a defined environment. Mixing in different leader types, placing some in the immediate proximity of the crowd and others scattered around the environment, provides desirable results.
This paper proposes an essay concerning the understanding of human behaviours and crisis management of crowds in extreme situations, such as evacuation through complex venues. The first part focuses on the understanding of the main features of the crowd viewed as a living, hence complex system. The main concepts are subsequently addressed, in the second part, to a critical analysis of mathematical models suitable to capture them, as far as it is possible. Then, the third part focuses on the use, toward safety problems, of a model derived by the methods of the mathematical kinetic theory and theoretical tools of evolutionary game theory. It is shown how this model can depict critical situations and how these can be managed with the aim of minimizing the risk of catastrophic events.
The evacuation of crowds from buildings or vehicles is one example that highlights the importance of understanding how individual-level interactions and decision-making combine and lead to the overall behaviour of crowds. In particular, to make evacuations safer, we need to understand how individuals make movement decisions in crowds. Here, we present an evacuation experiment with over 500 participants testing individual behaviour in an interactive virtual environment. Participants had to choose between different exit routes under the influence of three different types of directional information: static information (signs), dynamic information (movement of simulated crowd) and memorized information, as well as the combined effect of these different sources of directional information. In contrast to signs, crowd movement and memorized information did not have a significant effect on human exit route choice in isolation. However, when we combined the latter two treatments with additional directly conflicting sources of directional information, for example signs, they showed a clear effect by reducing the number of participants that followed the opposing directional information. This suggests that the signals participants observe more closely in isolation do not simply overrule alternative sources of directional information. Age and gender did not consistently explain differences in behaviour in our experiments.
We conducted a computer-based experiment with over 450 human participants and used a Bayesian model selection approach to explore dynamic exit route choice mechanisms of individuals in simulated crowd evacuations. In contrast to previous work, we explicitly explore the use of time-dependent and time-independent information in decision-making. Our findings suggest that participants tended to base their exit choices on time-dependent information, such as differences in queue lengths and queue speeds at exits rather than on time-independent information, such as differences in exit widths or exit route length. We found weak support for similar decision-making mechanisms under a stress-inducing experimental treatment. However, under this treatment participants were less able or willing to adjust their original exit choice in the course of the evacuation. Our experiment is not a direct test of behaviour in real evacuations, but it does highlight the role different types of information and stress play in real human decision-making in a virtual environment. Our findings may be useful in identifying topics for future study on real human crowd movements or for developing more realistic agent-based simulations.
How is movement of individuals coordinated as a group? This is a fundamental question of social behaviour, encompassing phenomena such as bird flocking, fish schooling, and the innumerable activities in human groups that require people to synchronise their actions. We have developed an experimental paradigm, the HoneyComb computer-based multi-client game, to empirically investigate human movement coordination and leadership. Using economic games as a model, we set monetary incentives to motivate players on a virtual playfield to reach goals via players' movements. We asked whether (I) humans coordinate their movements when information is limited to an individual group member's observation of adjacent group member motion, (II) whether an informed group minority can lead an uninformed group majority to the minority's goal, and if so, (III) how this minority exerts its influence. We showed that in a human group - on the basis of movement alone - a minority can successfully lead a majority. Minorities lead successfully when (a) their members choose similar initial steps towards their goal field and (b) they are among the first in the whole group to make a move. Using our approach, we empirically demonstrate that the rules of swarming behaviour apply to humans. Even complex human behaviour, such as leadership and directed group movement, follow simple rules that are based on visual perception of local movement. Citation: Boos M, Pritz J, Lange S, Belz M (2014) Leadership in Moving Human Groups. PLoS Comput Biol 10(4): e1003541. doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1003541 Editor: Laurence T. Maloney, New York University, United States of America Received April 5, 2013; Accepted December 25, 2013; Published April 3, 2014 Copyright:  2014 Boos et al. This is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the
-The congregation of crowd undoubtedly constitutes an important risk factor, which may endanger the safety of the gathered people. The solution reported against this significant threat to citizens safety is to consider careful planning and measures. Thereupon, in this paper, we address the crowd evacuation problem by suggesting an innovative technological solution, namely, the use of mobile robot agents. The contribution of the proposed evacuation system is twofold: (i) it proposes an accurate Cellular Automaton simulation model capable of assessing the human behavior during emergency situations and (ii) it takes advantage of the simulation output to provide sufficient information to the mobile robotic guide, which in turn approaches and redirects a group of people towards a less congestive exit at a time. A custom-made mobile robotic platform was accordingly designed and developed. Last, the performance of the proposed robot guided evacuation model has been examined in real-world scenarios exhibiting significant performance improvement during the crucial first response time window. Note to Practitioners-This paper is motivated by the problem of evacuating people from indoor to outdoor environments. Existing models study the behavior of the evacuating crowd either in a microscopic or a macroscopic way and provide means for actuation on the evacuees by sound or visual signals, to avoid clogging at certain exits. This paper suggests a novel approach using a mobile robot to attract the attention of evacuees heading towards satu- rated exits and guide them to less blocked ones, thus ensuring a faster and safer area clearance, reducing the bottleneck effect usually observed in front of the exits. Comparative studies prove the efficiency of the proposed method which can improve the overall evacuation saving crucial response time in the emergency situations. In future research, we will address the problem of coordi- nating multiple robots for the evacuation of masses in big audito- riums or stadiums.
To explore crowd behaviors in coalmine emergency situations, a crowd evacuation simulation model was presented, which aims at the high-level decision- making skills and wayfinding algorithm to explore the leadership in underground emergency evacuation. In proposed evacuation model, leaders' and followers' behaviors were constructed according to their different roles and internal mental states. Leaders can explore coalmine environment for new paths using the proposed wayfinding algorithm to help others. The simulating results of underground fire evacuation case show the proposed approach is effective to create believable crowd behaviors in virtual coalmine.
Article history: Received 6 July 2015 Received in revised form 10 November 2015 Accepted 23 November 2015 Available online 30 November 2015 Communicated by R. Wu Keywords: Evacuation Guider Guidance strategy Multi-grid model Pedestrian dynamics Pedestrian evacuation with guidance is investigated by a multi-grid model in this paper. The effects of guider type, guider number, guider distribution and guidance strategy on evacuation are discussed. From the analysis of simulation results, it is found that the identified guiders are more beneficial to evacuation because they can be distinguished easily by pedestrians during evacuation; The optimal guider number exists in view of the human cost and can be obtained in our model; The uniform distribution of guiders covers more area in the room and makes evacuation efficient; Evacuation guidance is more effective when the speed of guider is about 75% of herding pedestrian's speed in our simulation scenario; The performance of evacuation guidance strategy considering both distance and occupant number is the best when compared to other strategies; The coordination and cooperation between guiders are very important and necessary to facilitate the evacuation. The study may be useful for understanding the importance of guidance in evacuation and developing efficient evacuation strategy for management under emergency.
Empirical evidence suggests that evacuees tend to break down their well-coordinated motion and adopt competitive egress behaviour when they are confronting life-endangering situations (e.g., fire accident, earthquake). This phenomenon significantly influences crowd dynamics, and sub sequently, the overall evacuation time. In this paper, a novel evacuation model has been devel oped, which takes the detailed cooperative and competitive egress movements of evacuees into consideration. The proposed model has been conducted to simulate crowd (i.e., with different proportion of competitive individuals within the crowd) evacuating from a single-exit compart ment room (i.e., the exit width varies from 0.8 to 2.0m). Simulation results show that competitive evacuees exhibit an arc-shape formation in front of the bottleneck area (i.e., the exit). This is notably distinct from the cooperative evacuees generated shape formation. In addition, the evacuation performance (i.e., evacuation time, trajectories, density and flow rate) of competitive and cooperative evacuees over time are successfully captured for analysis. This study contributes to a better understanding of the crowd evacuation dynamics by considering the impact of competitive and cooperative egress movements.
- In recent years, floods have caused significant casualties and property damage worldwide. To investigate the evacuation dynamics of pedestrian in subway stations under flood invasion conditions, an evacuation model for pedestrian under flood situations is established by incorporating a cellular automata model and a hydrodynamic model. The effects of water depth, flow speed and flow direction on pedestrian movement and behavioral characteristics in subway stations are quantified. Crowd evacuation with the flood spreading process under various scenarios is simulated, and the egress time and pedestrian distribution are analyzed. It is found that the existence of flood reduces the evacuation speed and delays the evacuation process. With the increase of water depth and intake flow, it becomes more challenging for passengers to evacuate successfully. Under this circumstance, adding the number of safety exits and widening the exit width can significantly reduce the evacuation time. Besides, the pre-evacuation behavior hinders the movement process, and the rapid evacuation becomes more difficult due to the flood spreading during this period. The evacuation efficiency can be improved if the pre-evacuation time reduces. The study is useful to design evacuation plans and improve the emergency management level of subway stations under sudden flood disasters.
-The more the robotics technology tends to get established in human everyday life, the greater the necessity for robots to obtain social skills, facilitating their presence and behavior among humans. In order for robots to attain socially- aware characteristics, their navigation strategy should comply with a set of certain criteria, such as the respect of spatial interactions. Towards this end, the paper in hand presents a framework that operates on a single RGB-D scene. Initially it seeks the human presence and defines respective bounding boxes. Then, within the 3D reconstructed scene the people in the bounding boxes are replaced by points following a Gaussian distribution. The latter results to a grading occupancy grid, which complies with the spatial human comfort zones.
Crowd evacuation has gained increasing attention due to its importance in the day-to-day management of public areas. During an emergency evacuation, there are a variety of factors that need to be considered when designing a practical evacuation model. For example, relatives tend to move together or look for each other. These behaviors undoubtedly aggravate the chaos degree of evacuating crowds and make evacuations hard to model. In this paper, we propose an entropy- based combined behavior model to better analyze the influence of these behaviors on the evacuation process. Specifically, we utilize the Boltzmann entropy to quantitatively denote the degree of chaos in the crowd. The evacuation behavior of heterogeneous people is simulated through a series of behavior rules. Moreover, we devise a velocity adjustment method to ensure the evacuees follow a more orderly direction. Extensive simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed evacuation model and provide useful insights into the design of practical evacuation strategies.
An extended floor field cellular automata model considering pedestrian panic was proposed to investigate pedestrian dynamics under the threat of artificial attack. In the model, a new parameter D was introduced to reflect quantitatively the extent of the impact of panic on pedestrian evacuation. Besides, pedestrian movement is governed by the static, attack threat and herding floor field. And some modifications were made to introduce the influence of panic on the decision-making of the individual. Further, the motion and assault of the artificial attacker and the death of pedestrians were taken into account simultaneously. The simulation results show that the proposed model can reproduce some real characteristic features of escape panics, such as (1) Pedestrians become less rational. (2) At exits, arching and clogging are observed. (3) People show a tendency towards mass behavior, i.e., pedestrian herding. (4) Alternative exits are overlooked or not efficiently used. As the extent of the panic increases, pedestrians spend more time to escape from the room and are more sensitive to the movement of the crowd and the action of the attacker. The phenomenon of pedestrian herding and jamming can be clearly observed as D increases. And the results also indicate that the tension caused by moderate panic can help reduce casualties, whereas excessive panic will increase casualties. Besides, enhancing pedestrian initiative, i.e., the ability that pedestrian finds the exit independently in panic, is beneficial to the evacuation. In addition, more pedestrians would lose their lives due to attack and the evacuation efficiency would be reduced if the attacker starts the attack from the positions of the exits, so the security forces near the exits should be strengthened.
This study proposes an evacuation guidance model for heterogeneous populations to investigate the effects of guidance strategies on the evacuation process in large-scale pedestrian facilities with multiple exits. The guidance model integrates an exit choice model and a microscopic pedestrian simulation model with discrete space representation. The exit choice model, considering the travel distance to each exit, the level of congestion and the movement speed of pedestrians, generates the allocation of exits to pedestrians. The microscopic simulation model depicts the pedestrian movements during the evacuation under guidance. Numerical simulations are conducted to evaluate the performance of the guidance strategy. Simulation results indicate that by balancing the time interval for sending evacuation instruction and the frequency of the target exit changes, better evacuation performance can be achieved. Comparison between two cases with and without instruction reveals that the performance of the guidance strategy is closely related to the pedestrian density level and the heterogeneous speeds of pedestrians. The evacuation performance is also affected by the compliance behavior and non-compliance behavior of pedestrians. The findings can provide theoretical suggestions for the effective management of crowd movement at large events.
For many existing leader-follower based evacuation models, the distribution positions of the guides are random, and the guides leave the exit after guiding once, resulting in low evacuation efficiency. This study proposes improvements to the leader-follower based evacuation model: Firstly, the cluster analysis is carried out on the followers, and the cluster center is calculated according to the number of leaders, so that the followers within the guiding scope will increase. Secondly, make the guide move back and forth between the cluster center and the exit, so a path planning scheme for the guide is given. The two improvement methods greatly increase the efficiency of leaders and realize the purpose of quick escape of people in the evacuation area.
-New approach for a crowd navigation is presented in this paper. The differential equations with mathematical concepts is used in simple system but when the complexity increases, these concepts become less effective. The treatment of complex systems such as crowd browsing requires the manipulation of vague, imprecise, uncertain, or both imprecise and uncertain information. The proposed idea use path finding for static obstacle and perception of the environment with spatial behaviour for dynamic obstacle (decision making). Our application is modelled by multi agents and implemented with Netlogo software, different modules such as best path finding and behavioural factors of agents have been programmed with java language. Our software can be used to simulate real situation of complex system.
This paper presents the optimal path planning from an initial position to a final position of virtual crowd movement in an emergency evacuation. We have used hybrid architecture based on reinforced fuzzy inference system to control dynamic obstacles and A* algorithm for path finding which are widely used in artificial intelligence. The proposed contribution is to model the collision avoidance problem using a logic inference system. This fuzzy logic addresses cognitive behavior that introduces the uncertainty and imprecision during decision-making, for this the emotional model of personality (OCEAN) is integrated for BDI agents (beliefs, desires and intentions) and perception of agents in the environment. We will demonstrate the implemented approach by developing application with Java and Netlogo platform and tested with several simulation examples, that show how a crowd can be evacuated without collision and generate macroscopic emergence behavior by microscopic interaction. This application can be used as a framework to simulate real situations of complex systems (stadium evacuation, airports, hospitals).
Emergency evacuation (egress) is an important issue in safety design of facilities and buildings. Studies of past emergency events have highlighted the need to consider occupants' behaviors for better understanding of evacuation patterns. Occu- pants' background and knowledge (such as the level of familiarity with the space and previous experience of emergencies) influence how individuals perceive the emergency situations that in turn can lead to different individual behaviors observed in evacuation. Furthermore, as reported by previous studies, people with special roles, such as staffmembers and emergency responders, often assume certain responsibilities and extend their roles to assist others and facilitate evacuation. Through simulations of stadium evacuation with 13,200 agents using SAFEgress, we show that the evacuation can be significantly more efficient when occupants possess the knowledge of the floor plan and evacuate from the nearest exit, leading to a shortening of evacuation time of 40%. Furthermore, strategically arranging stewards for crowd control can further enhance egress performance. The simulation study indicates the importance in considering the unique egress design of the venue (such as exit locations and signage), participating occupants' knowledge of the space, and effective crowd control to achieve optimal egress outcome. By using SAFEgress to model different plausible evacuation behaviors, engineers, designers, and facility managers can evaluate and improve the design of safe egress systems and emergency preparedness planning.
MODELING AIRPORT EVACUATION UNDER EMERGENCY USING AGENT-BASED MODELS - 6th International Conference on Computational Methods in Structural Dynamics and Earthquake Engineering Methods in Structural Dynamics and Earthquake Engineering - 15 - 17 June 2017, Rhodes Island, Greece
Several studies on Emergency Management are available in the literature, but most of them do not consider how the human behavior during an emergency can affect the evacuation process. Therefore, the novel contribution of this article is the implementation of an agent-based model to describe the evacuation, due to a blast in a public area, integrated with a human behavior analytical model. Each agent has its own behavior that is described in a layered framework. The first layer simulates the "agent's features" function. Then, an "individual module" describes dynamically the emotional aspects using (i) the Decision Field Theory, (ii) a stationary stochastic model, and (iii) the results coming from a questionnaire. An agent-based model with integrated human behavior is proposed to test critical infrastructures in emergency conditions without performing full scale evacuation tests. Analyses could be performed both in real time with a hazard scenario and at the design level to predict the system response to identify the optimal configuration. Therefore, the development of the proposed methodology could support both designers and policy makers in the decision-making process.
- In this paper, we study the coordinated robot-assisted human crowd evacuation problem, and our aim is to optimally deploy robots and choose proper human-robot interactions to evacuate human crowd in an efficient and safe manner. For such a purpose, we propose a stochastic differential equation model to capture the motion of each individual pedestrian in a crowd. Furthermore, we incorporate the impact of the robots on individual pedestrians in the stochastic differential equation model. From the microscopic pedestrian model, we obtain its corresponding Kolmogorov equation to describe the crowd dynamics evolution at the macroscopic level. The robot deployment and command selection issues are then formulated as an optimal control problem, and a two-step hierarchical structure is proposed to solve the optimal control problem. Simulations are given to illustrate our proposed approach and validate the effectiveness of using multiple robots to assist human crowd evacuation process. (1) (2)
Leader-and-follower behaviour is one of the most important behaviours during evacuation, as determining the effect of leader-and-follower behaviour in social networks on crowd evacuation during emergency situations is important for enhancing safety. In this study, four experiments with two social groups involving 81 participants were conducted. Before the experiments, participants were asked to respond to a questionnaire to evaluate in dividual leadership and to determine the leaders in each social group. In the experiment, the leaders and some randomly selected students were asked to evacuate along a designated route. The influence of the leaders on evacuation patterns was studied by recording the following ratio and following behaviour of the crowd. Furthermore, the effect of smoke on evacuation patterns was studied by releasing smoke on certain paths. Experimental results showed that opinion leaders under normal conditions had a limited influence on the choice of evacuation route among students, despite stable social relationships among students. Instead, external envi ronmental conditions, personal-psychological factors, and vision appeared to play more important roles, and the tendency of participants to congregate was most obvious. Most participants followed the path of those ahead of them and were thus more dependent on group formation. The effect of smoke on evacuation behaviour was not clear. In contrast, the effect of re-entry behaviour on crowd evacuation was more obvious, as most participants tended to follow the re-entry decisions of their peers. Because of personal subconscious habits, advanced sci entific planning and drills conducted in advance could be used to greatly improve the emergency evacuation process. These results could also be used to modify evacuation simulation models and contribute to the devel opment of evacuation plans.
In recent years, as a disaster, terrorist attacks have occurred throughout the world. However, emergency evacuation behaviors during these incidents were not clear, and the traditional emergency plans were not suitable for such incidents. In this paper, evacuation behaviors under armed assault attack in a classroom were studied based on evacuation experiments. A total of 103 participants took part in three experiments. In each experiment, the attacker's attacking route was set differently to study the impact of the attacking route on evacuation behaviors. Pre-evacuation delay, panic of the evacuees, exit choices, evacuation time, and evacuees' trajectories in the experiments were all analyzed. The results of the experiments showed that when a terrorist attack occurs, there is a long delay before evacuation, and most of the evacuees were in the state of "observation " before they moved. When one of the participants started to evacuate or shout, other participants would begin to recognize the danger and escape quickly. These three experiments showed that the route of the attacker had a significant impact on the routes and exit choices of the evacuees. Rather than searching for the nearest exit, the primary purpose of evacuees was to keep a safe distance from the attacker. The average speed of the evacuees in these three experiments was 1.07 m/s, 0.81 m/s, and 0.84 m/s, respectively. The density distribution during the crowd evacuation process was uneven, with the highest density occurring at the area from the seats to the aisles. The research can provide data support for the design of emergency plans and the computer simulation of the armed assault attack.
The social force model is one of the most common models used in the study of pedestrian dy namics. In the social force model, there are oscillation in the movement of pedestrians. To address the oscillation phenomenon, this paper modifies the way of setting psychological forces and judgment conditions based on previous research. By comparing the simulation results with the real experimental results, the evacuation time results are basically the same, which validates the effectiveness of the modified social force model. The simulation results show that the modified social force model eliminates the phenomenon of evacuee velocity oscillations near fixed ob stacles in the original model and fixes the phenomenon of abnormal behavior of evacuees during collisions. In addition, we simulate different numbers of evacuees (i.e.,25,50,100,200) and the results show that the modified social force model successfully replicates the phenomenon of arch congestion during evacuation.
Emergency evacuation has been receiving increasing attention due to the widely concern of public security in recent years. It is a critical task to analyze how to evacuate large crowd in an efficient way. Evacuation leaders, described by a modified leader-follower model based on social force, areinvestigated in this paper aiming to reduce evacuation time, casualties and loss. Artificial system of Beijing South Station is established based on actual data to verify the lead-follower evacuation method, where a large number of simulations have been conducted. The results show that evacuation with evacuation leaders can effectively reduce the evacuation time and casualties in an emergency situation in public place with a large number of pedestrians.
In the emergency under smoke or gas, the visual field of pedestrians is limited, unrea- sonable evacuation guidance methods will affect the efficiency of evacuation, and even cause evacuation failure in serious cases. Therefore, the optimized evacuation guidance strategy is investigated in this study. First, a distance factor is introduced to modify the follow-up behavior of pedestrians, which solves the problem of leaders being blocked by pedestrians. Then, a reward grid-based leader initial position optimization method is proposed to ensure the safe guidance of pedestrians. By considering the density and distance factors comprehensively, the leader's position is theoretically available by calculation. Finally, a leader exit selection strategy based on evacuation urgency degree is proposed. The leaders select exits in order of evacuation urgency degree, thus ensuring a more balanced exit utilization. The simulation results show that the proposed model can improve the safety of evacuation, and reduce the evacuation time.
- In emergencies, leaders play a crucial role in providing evacuation guidance for pedestrians. Planning an effective path for leaders is imperative, but the closest path to the exit may not always be the most optimal. Additionally, it is essential to consider the state distribution of pedestrians. This paper introduces an entropy-based method for path planning during crowd evacuation in complex environments. First, key nodes are extracted according to the room structure, the initial leader position is determined using the maximum entropy covering method, and the evacuation priority is assigned based on the calculated urgency. An exit selection algorithm is then presented, wherein each leader selects the optimal exit as the destination according to their priority. Finally, an enhanced A* algorithm is introduced, incorporating evacuation entropy to devise the optimal evacuation guidance path for leaders. The simulation environment built by Anylogic serves to validate the efficacy of both the exit selection strategy and the enhanced path planning algorithm.
Virtual reality technology is argued to be suitable to the simulation study of mass evacuation behavior, because of the practical and ethical constraints in researching this field. This article describes three studies in which a new virtual reality paradigm was used, in which participants had to escape from a burning underground rail station. Study 1 was carried out in an immersion laboratory and demonstrated that collective identification in the crowd was enhanced by the (shared) threat embodied in emergency itself. In Study 2, high-identification participants were more helpful and pushed less than did low-identification participants. In Study 3, identification and group size were experimentally manipulated, and similar results were obtained. These results support a hypothesis according to which (emergent) collective identity motivates solidarity with strangers. It is concluded that the virtual reality technology developed here represents a promising start, although more can be done to embed it in a traditional psychology laboratory setting.
-When the social force model is used to simulate the crowd evacuation, how to reduce the amount of calculation of the original model is an important problem which can not only affect the speed of solving the model but also control the program running time. This paper investigates the impact that the number of each team's members and the scale of crowd have on the evacuation time and the program running time in rooms with different exit width. Therefore, it proposes the grouping social force model, in which the crowd is to divide into multiple groups and each group is considered as a whole moving unit to decrease the computation time of the social force model. The simulation results show that evacuation time and programs run time will decrease with declining of the groups' number, and the amplitude of attenuation is dynamic changing. Meanwhile, the results suggest that the proper number of each team's members should be set to a different width exit in a regular rectangle room, and for large scale crowd, the effect of the grouping strategy is more effective.
Pedestrian evacuations can occur during special events where people gather in buildings or sport- ing arenas. People might attend such events with friends and family. The study of pedestrian behavior has evolved with many new studies that include pedestrian group behavior within their models to help determine the relevance of groups on the overall evacuation. This paper focuses on better understanding an individual's decision-making during an evacuation when they are responsible for leading others to safety, especially regarding group composition. Data were collected using questionnaires about an evacuation scenario of a church in the USA (Norfolk, Vir- ginia), of which there were approximately 350 parishioner respondents. Analysis of results shows several interesting results: group leaders take fewer risks and want closer group cohesion when leading groups that include vulnerable members (i.e., children, disabled adults, or older persons); male leaders, though normally risk-takers are shown to want closer group cohesion during road interactions; and leaders of vulnerable groups were shown to be less likely to search for alternative exits when faced with a congested area. The results can potentially inform pedestrian evacuation simulation models to help better depict crowd behavior.
-Crowd evacution is a major safety issue in many public places. Efforts have been made to design the best evacuation plans using simulations and modeling of certain evacuation scenarios, in order to help prepare for the actual event. In some scenarios where the majority of evacuees are not familiar with the layout of the building, evacuees most familiar with the layout of the building should be appointed as group leaders. These leaders guide their evacuee group to safety, usually outside the building. This research employs leader-following behaviour, and multi-agent system with Reciprocal Velocity Obstacles (RVO) for navigation, thus creating leader-follower relationship between evacuees. Each evacuees, i.e. follower, tries to navigate to follow their respective group leader to reach their escape point together. Experiment results demonstrate the navigation of hundreds of agents in an evacuation scenario, which shows that the evacuees safely reached the evacuation point between 92.597 to 129.71 seconds.
There is growing consensus that individuals egressing during emergencies engage in social collective behavior that is ordered and cooperative. Despite this fact however, a great many of the existing models either do not account for this type of behavior or model it in an inadequate manner. In this paper, a leader-follower agent-based model is proposed to interpret local social interactions and collective behavior and then use this information to mimic three particular scenarios: lining up in counter-flow, queuing, and collective mobility. To achieve this, a pedestrian agent can establish informal and transient leader-follower relationships with others while adjusting its behavioral patterns as warranted by the situation. The proposed model is calibrated to existing field data and then validated using another set of field data, where it is shown that the new model is capable of reasonably simulating social collective behavior during egress.
One of the big challenges for group-living animals is to find out who in a group has pertinent information (regarding food or predators) at any moment in time, because informed individuals may not be obviously recognizable to other group members. We found that individuals in human groups were capable of identifying those with information, and this identification increased group performance: the speed and accuracy of groups in reaching a target. Using video analysis we found how informed individuals might have been identified by other group members by means of inadvertent social cues (such as starting order, time spent following and group position). Furthermore, we were able to show that at least one of these cues, the group position of informed individuals, was indeed correlated with group performance. Our final experiment confirmed that leadership was even more efficient when the group members were given the identity of the leader. We discuss the effect of information status regarding the presence and identity of leaders on collective animal behaviour.
Pedestrian simulation has been a topic of research for several decades, especially in regards to pedestrian egress. Only recently, though, have researchers begun to consider the effects that groups have upon pedestrian egress. Both empirical studies and simulation models predict a decrease in pedestrian speeds when pedestrians travel in groups. In this study, we show that this decrease in speed does not necessarily correspond to an increase in egress time as additional factors such as the amount of knowledge gained through the formation of groups must be considered. The sharing of route costs helps pedestrians maintain proximity to each other and under certain circumstances, pedestrian egress times are actually improved by the formation of groups. We also show that the inclusion of communication costs, sharing knowledge, and group decision-making all have a strong impact on predicted egress times.
This study examined social influence on individual risk-taking decisions during evacuations through an immersive virtual reality (VR)-based experiment. Participants were asked to evacuate in the case of a virtual building fire. The results suggested that participants' route choices during evacuations were affected by their neighbors' behaviors. In particular, if a risky route was less preferred due to dense smoke, the effect of neighbor behavior was strongest when enticing participants to take the risky route. Nonetheless, the number of virtual neighbors did not significantly change the degree of social influence on participants' route choices. Moreover, an increase in smoke density significantly reduced the number of participants making risky decisions. The results also indicated that individuals had a tendency to follow others when making risky decisions, but they were not blindly following others. Individuals made their evacuation route decisions by engaging in comprehensive consideration of various types of environmental information.
-There is a serious problem in disaster evacuation guidance in urban areas: When a large-scale disaster strikes in the areas, how can many crowds of evacuees are smoothly evacuated to refuges without any major confusion by lack of disaster information? In recent years, we have proposed a method for disaster evacuation guidance using opportunistic networking where the evacuees gather and share disaster information using wireless communication by smartphones on the way in their evacuation, and we have shown numerically that our method drastically reduces evacuation time and efficient disaster information gathering. In our numerical simulations, however, there was an assumption that all evacuees totally follow our evacuation guidance. In this paper, we loosen the assumption for investigating the scenario that only a certain percentage of evacuees can follow our guidance, but the rest of unguided evacuees tends to follow movement of the majority of nearby evacuees. By this synchronous movement, a small group of evacuees including a core leader who instantly leads the other nearby evacuees by our guidance at the initial stage of evacuation will gradually aggregate nearby evacuees to form a self-organizing large group of evacuees, which creates a evacuation flow of evacuees along evacuation routes. We call these processes self-organized follow-me evacuation guidance. To evaluate the performance of the newly proposed guidance, we propose a model of Majority Voting Mobility (MVM) for simulating the formation of the self-organizing groups of evacuees. We use evacuation time and the cumulative number of evacuees arrived at a refuge for evaluation measures. Fur- thermore, we also consider a simple mean-field theory of MVM to discuss the necessary condition for the self-organized follow- me evacuation guidance. Consequently, we can numerically obtain reasonable numerical results which are consistent with an earlier study by Sugiman and Misumi, and we also show a threshold of the ratio of the core leaders to total evacuees that they can successfully form the self-organizing group.
In this paper, a two-dimensional Cellular Automaton (CA) model simulates the evacuation process of a crowd responding to fire spread. The crowd consists of individuals and its behaviour is modelled by the response of each individual to a rule that directs him/her to the nearest exit. Furthermore, fire spreading and movements of the crowd members while approaching the fire are successfully simulated. Empirical studies and socio-psychological concepts that attempt to explain how individuals act under fire threat have been considered. Characteristic features of crowd dynamics, such as incoherent pedestrian motion, blockings in front of exits and mass behaviour are successfully simulated. An efficient user-friendly interface has been equipped with parameters defining the arrangement of the area, crowd formation and fire features. Finally, the model is executed fast on typical PCs and can be used for planning evacuation strategies under fire threat or as part of a real-time decision support system.
Introduction: Although every hospital needs a security plan for the support of immobile patients who do not possess autonomous escape capabilities, little information exists to assist in the development of practical patient evacuation methods. Hypothesis: 1) In hospitals during disasters, incident leadership of the fire authorities can be supported effectively by hospital executives experienced in the management of mass casualties; and 2) As an alternative for canvas carry sheets, rescue drag sheets can be employed for emergency, elevator-independent, patient evacuation. Methods: A hospital evacuation exercise was planned and performed to obtain experiences in incident command and to permit calculation of elevator-independent patient transport times. Performance of incident leadership was observed by means of pre-defined checklists. The effectiveness and efficiency of carrying teams with five persons each were compared to those with a rescue drag sheet employed by a single person. Results: Incident command for hospitals during a disaster is enhanced considerably by pre-defined and trained executives who are placed at the immediate disposal of the fire authorities. For elevator-independent patient transport, the rescue drag sheet was superior to conventional carrying measures because of a reduced number of transport personnel required to move each patient. With this method, patient transport times averaged 54 m/min. flat and 18 seconds for one floor descent. Conclusion: Experiences from a hospital during an evacuation exercise provided decision criteria for changes in the disaster preparedness plan. Hospital incident leadership was assigned to executives-in-charge in close co-operation with the fire authorities. All beds were equipped with a rescue drag sheet. Both concepts may help to cope with an emergency evacuation of a hospital. Gretenkort P, Harke H, Blazejak J, Pache B, Leledakis G: Interface between hospital and fire authorities -A concept for management of incidents in hospitals. Prehosp Disast Merf2002;17(l):42-47'.
During the process of a real emergency evacuation, interactions among evacuees may vary with different positions, which are affected by many objective factors such as the density of crowds, the distance to the exit and so on. To better reproduce real crowd behavior in the process of an evacuation, we propose a spatial game to model the pedestrian room evacuation in a discrete lattice. In the game, each agent interacts with its immediate neighbors and chooses one of three possible modes of strategy that leads to patient, normal or impatient behavior. The payoffs of the game change with the evacuation conditions and each agent plays against its nearest neighbors for the expected evacuation time. The model shows how evacuation conditions affect behavioral evolution in an emergency evacuation.
Game theory serves as a good tool to explore crowd dynamic conflicts during evacuation processes. The purpose of this study is to simulate the complicated interaction behavior among the conflicting pedestrians in an evacuation flow. Two types of pedestrians, namely, defectors and cooperators, are considered, and two important factors including fear index and cost coefficient are taken into account. By combining the snowdrift game theory with a cellular automaton (CA) model, it is shown that the increase of fear index and cost coefficient will lengthen the evacuation time, which is more apparent for large values of cost coefficient. Meanwhile, it is found that the defectors to cooperators ratio could always tend to consistent states despite different values of parameters, largely owing to self-organization effects.
Obstacle removal in crowd evacuation is critical to safety and the evacuation system efficiency. Recently, many researchers proposed game theoretic models to avoid and remove obstacles for crowd evacuation. Game theoretical models aim to study and analyze the strategic behaviors of individuals within a crowd and their interactions during the evacuation. Game theoretical models have some limitations in the context of crowd evacuation. These models consider a group of individuals as homogeneous objects with the same goals, involve complex mathematical formulation, and cannot model real-world scenarios such as panic, environmental information, crowds that move dynamically, etc. The proposed work presents a game theoretic model integrating an agent-based model to remove the obstacles from exits. The proposed model considered the parameters named: (1) obstacle size, length, and width, (2) removal time, (3) evacuation time, (4) crowd density, (5) obstacle identification, and (6) route selection. The proposed work conducts various experiments considering different conditions, such as obstacle types, obstacle removal, and several obstacles. Evaluation results show the proposed model's effectiveness compared with existing literature in reducing the overall evacuation time, cell selection, and obstacle removal. The study is potentially useful for public safety situations such as emergency evacuations during disasters and calamities.
Panic during emergency building evacuation can cause crowd stampede, resulting in serious injuries and casualties. Agent-based methods have been successfully employed to investigate the collective human behavior during emergency evacuation in cases where the configurational space is extremely simple - usually one rectangular room - but not in evacuations of multi-room or multi-floor buildings. This implies that the effect of the complexity of building architecture on the collective behavior of the agents during evacuation has not been fully investigated. Here, we employ a system of self-moving particles whose motion is governed by the social-force model to investigate the effect of complex building architecture on the uncoordinated crowd motion during urgent evacuation. In particular, we study how the room door size, the size of the main exit, the desired speed and the friction coefficient affect the evacuation time and under what circumstances the evacuation efficiency improves.
When humans escape from a threat in a crowded space, how do they choose the best wayfinding strategy for their survival? This is a decision context in which individuals are heavily exposed to the actions of others; it is thus plausible to assume that they are influenced by the social interactions. It has been suggested by some influential theoretical studies that in emergency escape situations, 'people show a tendency towards mass behaviour, that is, to do what other people do' (Helbing, D., Farkas, I., Vicsek, T., 2000. Simulating dynamical features of escape panic. Nature, 407, 487-490, page 487). However, the validity of this assumption has not come under scrutiny, nor has the role of context-specific factors that may strengthen or weaken the possibility of displaying the so-called herd-type (or imitative) behaviour been adequately understood in this context. Here, we report on novel wayfinding decision experiments that simulated the escape of human crowds from multi-exit spaces. Participants' perceptions of different contributing factors were quantitatively inferred from their observed choices (N = 3015) using econometric modelling methods. Results showed that the direction at which the social interactions (i.e. observing the movements of other evacuees towards different exit alternatives) impacted on individuals' navigational choices depended significantly on the decision maker's knowledge about the attributes of the alternatives chosen by the crowd flows. Contrary to the conventional belief, people's dominant wayfinding strategy was not to copy the escape directions that other people (i.e. the majority) chose. In fact, in a heavily crowded space with little or no choice uncertainty, observing many people choosing a certain exit direction reduced the desirability of that escape route. The assumption of herd-like behaviour does not necessarily apply to all contexts of evacuations and it should be considered in conjunction with the moderating role of context-specific factors, particularly the level of information available to individual evacuees.
Humans use social information to improve their decisions in scenarios that involve uncertainty. Previous research has shown that this social influence can have positive or negative outcomes depending on the context of decision and characteristics of the system. A particular scenario where the social information matters is the collective escape where behaviour of others could be used as an extra source of information and thus, influence the decision-making. The question is whether there could be any benefit for escaping human crowds to display imitative tendencies (or the so-called 'herd' behaviour) in their decision making. Here, we investigate this question in relation to exit direction decision-making through extensive computer simulation analyses. Using parameteric models of decision making, we increased the imitative tendency of (behaviourally) homogenous crowds on a continuum, simulated the escape process and outputted measures of system efficiency. We examined a broad range of simulated scenarios in terms of the shape of the environment, exit visibility and spatial distribution of exit capacities. Results showed that for none of the scenarios we tested, the escaping crowd could benefit from amplified tendencies to imitate peers. Our numerical analyses suggested that, at least when familiar with escape routes, there is no rationale for blindly following the direction choices of the crowd in emergency scenarios. Strong tendency to copy direction choices of the crowd could substantially hinder the process of evacuations and increase the risk of casualty. These findings have potential implications for evacuation training guidlines. They provide insights into how individuals should be guided/instructed to conduct themselves in case of an emergency in order to facilitate and optimise the evacuation process. A question for future research is how imitation (herding) in other aspects of escape behaviour (such as movement initiation or adapting (changing) direction choices) can influence the system.
The possible presence of social groups amongst occupants in indoor evacuation scenarios and the potential discrepancies between their behaviour and that of single individuals have been acknowledged in the evacuation dynamics literature. Yet, empirical studies on the behavioural characteristics of social-group evacuees, particularly those related to their decision-making mechanism, are relatively underrepresented. This study reports on a lab-in-the-field experiment of evacuations that investigates the effect of group size and stress level on multiple aspects of groups' behaviour. These aspects include pre-movement time, decision time (i.e. time taken to reach a directional exit decision), exit-choice behaviour, exit-choice changing and intra-group decision dynamics. Our main findings showed that: (I) Group size had a significant effect on pre-movement times and decision times (and to lesser extent, on evacuation times). People took longer to initiate their movement or to make a directional exit decision when in groups compared to when acting alone. The influence of group size on pre-movement and decision times, however, was not monotonic. For smaller group sizes (sizes 2 and 3), pre-movement and decision times increased with the group size. But for the larger group size (size 4), the effect was reversed. (II) The exit-choice mechanism of groups, overall, showed a great degree of similarity to that of single individuals. This suggests that, from a modelling perspective, the directional exit choices of groups could be approximated with the models obtained from datasets of individually-made choices. (III) Groups were more likely to revisit and change their initial exit decisions under the higher level of stress. In addition, social influence was a major factor in triggering changes in the exit choices of groups. Nearly 50% of the changes in group decisions occurred shortly after another neighbour group changed its exit decision. In other words, instances of group decision-changing was often followed by another group taking a similar action. (IV) As to the within-group dynamics of decision-making, our analyses suggested that, regardless of the group size, leadership was the dominant group decision-making mechanism (compared to the consensus or the conform-to-majority mechanisms). In nearly 50% of the cases, group decisions were made by one individual taking the lead and hinting the direction of the movement to other members of the group.
In this paper, the information transmission mechanism is introduced into the social force model to simulate pedestrian behavior in an emergency, especially when most pedestrians are unfamiliar with the evacuation environment. This modified model includes a collision avoidance strategy and an information transmission model that considers information loss. The former is used to avoid collision among pedestrians in a simulation, whereas the latter mainly describes how pedestrians obtain and choose directions appropriate to them. Simulation results show that pedestrians can obtain the correct moving direction through information transmission mechanism and that the modified model can simulate actual pedestrian behavior during an emergency evacuation. Moreover, we have drawn four conclusions to improve evacuation based on the simulation results; and these conclusions greatly contribute in optimizing a number of efficient emergency evacuation schemes for large public places.
Due, perhaps, to the historical division of crowd dynamics research into psychological and engineering approaches, microscopic crowd models have tended toward modelling simple interchangeable particles with an emphasis on the simulation of physical factors. Despite the fact that people have complex (non-panic) behaviours in crowd disasters, important human factors in crowd dynamics such as information discovery and processing, changing goals and communication have not yet been well integrated at the microscopic level. We use our Microscopic Human Factors methodology to fuse a microscopic simulation of these human factors with a popular microscopic crowd model. By tightly integrating human factors with the existing model we can study the effects on the physical domain (movement, force and crowd safety) when human behaviour (information processing and communication) is introduced. In a large-room egress scenario with ample exits, information discovery and processing yields a crowd of non-interchangeable individuals who, despite close proximity, have different goals due to their different beliefs. This crowd heterogeneity leads to complex inter-particle interactions such as jamming transitions in open space; at high crowd energies, we found a freezing by heating effect (reminiscent of the disaster at Central Lenin Stadium in 1982) in which a barrier formation of naïve individuals trying to reach blocked exits prevented knowledgeable ones from exiting. Communication, when introduced, reduced this barrier formation, increasing both exit rates and crowd safety.
When planning for the evacuation guidance, how to efficiently set the trained evacuation leaders is an important problem which has great impact on the evacuation process. This paper investigates the effect of the number and positions of evacuation leaders on the evacuation dynamics in rooms with limited visibility range. In the improved social force model, only the trained leaders exactly know the exit positions, and the others could only follow the guidance according to the positions and directions of evacuation leaders. According to the simulation results, only one or two leaders could get remarkable effect for a single- exit configuration. But for configurations with multi-exits, evacuation leaders would make the dynamic slower unless the guidance sufficiently utilizes every exit. The results indicate that, we should set as many leaders as the number of exits in the center of the multi-exits regular squared room, and when emergencies occur, each leader heads to a different exit. Moreover, if we do like this, the evacuation would be even faster than that with 20 random- position-leaders. This work may shed some light on the drawing up of emergency scheme for large public-gathering places like stadiums and shopping malls.
Metro has already become one of the main transportation methods in big cities across the world. With the development of metro systems, lots of associated safety issues (e.g., fire accidents and terrorism attacks) have occurred in the past decades. Under such circumstances, studies on the safety evacuation of the metro station hall are very necessary. Due to high human-density, fluent evacuation is important in the metro station hall in emergencies. However, metro station hall evacuation is a complex process, filling with humans of different behavior biases. Selection of evacuation direction usually is influenced by accessing information and human decision-making inevitably. Therefore, the paper proposed an evacuation model based on information transfer and rerouting, mainly concentrating on panic propagation, human decision process and human interaction, in order to examine the effects of these factors on evacuation. Results show that emergency information trans mission is crucial in accelerating evacuation since stronger information intensity brought from panic propagation improves the evacuation efficiency. The guidance of human flow during evacuation can unify evacuation behavior and the diversion of the crowd at the exits can make full use of the evacuation capacity of exits. Before the timestamp of 39, which corresponds to the time at which the people reach the exit, the human crowd walking in the corridor generally evacuate faster in the unified direction under the control of the herd mentality model. After that, masses gathered at the exit, and the social force model displays a better evacuation effect because of crowd diversion. Spontaneous rerouting may aggravate the evacuation chaos, while scientific evacuation route guidance and command is more reasonable and reliable. These conclusions will guide the process in making evacuation plans for the metro station hall and provide a new perspective to examine evacuation by considering human factors that are closer to the real situation.
Different leader-follower behaviors may be observed in models, such as group gathering, backtracking, and changing between groups. However, a comparison of these behaviors resulting in possible substantially different estimates of optimal evacuation procedures is lacking. Hence, we developed an agent-based model in combination with exploratory modeling to compare backtracking, group gathering, and followers changing leaders and investigate their influence on the evacuation and response time. The simulation results showed that backtracking and changing of groups increased the evacuation time. Whereby group gathering increase the response time. In addition, the combination of behaviors increases the influence on evacuation and response time. Further research needs to test these results with empirical studies and investigate the impact of other leader-follower behavior. The found insights may be utilized in evacuation research for modeling this behavior and they provide a valuable basis for designing policies in buildings with a high distribution of leader-follower groups.
In recent years, the development of efficient and effective evacuation information systems has attracted considerable attention, because people have been affected by various large-scale disasters such as typhoons, cyclones, floods, and tsunamis all over the world. Even in conventional evacuation information systems, necessary information can be given to the evacuees in advance. Nevertheless, it has been reported that many of the victims died without escaping. The cause is not the lack of information but the psychological properties of humans. This phenomenon is called majority syncing bias. In general, we tend to sympathize with the emotions of others in a crowd, and this prevents evacuation. In our previous works, we proposed a framework for controlling the emotional level of a crowd by employing robots. In this paper, to confirm the effectiveness of our proposed approach, we conducted additional simulations under various scales and ratios of guide robots for evacuees.
Taking into consideration the behavior of social groups, such as groups of friends, couples and families, is very important in crowd simulation. Existing approaches of group modeling offer little flexibility for customizing the structure of the groups and the relationships between their members, which limits their representation power. Often, those approaches also have limitations regarding their ability to represent groups of arbitrary sizes, as well as to represent certain aspects of the groups' cohesion, such as the ability of modeling how their members will walk together and whether they will follow the same routes. This work proposes a way of modeling groups with different structures, in which roles of leadership can be assigned to some of their members. The approach can also represent groups of arbitrary sizes that may consist of subgroups, and treat different levels of relationships between their members. Moreover, the groups can be modeled in such a way that their members show either a strong cohesion with one another or a loose cohesion, in which the members behave more autonomously when dealing with collision avoidance and choice of routes. Nevertheless, the sense of group is always present as the model offers the ability of regrouping whenever one or more members of a group are left behind. The model also includes a new personality factor that represents the urge of the group members to move towards their destinations when they experience a strong impedance from the crowd. The approach is based on states that the pedestrians can assume based on their profiles and on the social forces model.
Participation in exercises lead by the University of Stavanger, the SARex 1 in 2016 and SARex 2 in 2017, provided valuable lessons related to survival in a cold maritime environment. The scenario of the exercises was a mass evacuation from a stranded cruise ship in Arctic waters but provided experiences relevant beyond the cruise industry. This article focuses on the relevance for the oil and gas industry in the Norwegian sector. SARex 1 and 2 were rescue exercises carried out north of Spitzbergen by industry, regulators and academia during the spring of 2016 and 2017. The Norwegian Coast Guard, the University of Stavanger and GMC, Stavanger, organized the exercises. The Petroleum Safety Authority found it important to participate in SARex 1 and 2, to better understand the factors enabling success in a cold climate survival situation. The survival tests in lifeboats and life rafts during SARex 1 and 2 showed the necessity of having trained and competent leadership on board. This issue has perhaps been neglected, compared to the development of equipment to ensure successful evacuation and avoid hypothermia. Some key factors for survival success were (1) Functioning of emergency equipment (2) Organising and teaching the function of various items of safety equipment (3) Operating evacuation means at sea, e.g. watch routines, operating hatches/venting routines and (4) Activities and maintaining mental awareness and motivation. The overall learning from SARex 1 and 2 is that survival is dependent on active participation from the survivors. There is a need for sufficient competence amongst personnel to micro-manage all the details required for survival. The mental factors following fatigue and seasickness, in addition to hypothermia, make leadership and competence in a cold maritime climate essential for survival.
Emergency situations involving a large number of people may develop into disasters. One example of such emergency situation is fire evacuation in a building or crowded area. Although crowd evacuation simulation has been an active research area for many years, little research focuses on simulating the evacuation process with a Leader-Follower Model which shows the role of leaders in the evacuation. In this paper, we have simulated crowd evacuation process from a dancing hall. A crowd includes several groups with each group having a leader and some followers guided by the leader. Leaders are responsible for finding the evacuation path for their followers. The objective of this simulation is to show the effect of different number of leaders on the efficiency of evacuation. A dynamic grouping algorithm based on A* Algorithm has been proposed to simulate the dynamic grouping phenomena with a number of leaders. A prototype system has also been developed to verify the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm.
In this paper, according to the characteristics of evacuation in high-density crowd, a new triangular grid cellular automata model is proposed. In this model, the maximum density of crowd can reach to 8 person/m2 which is measured by the experiment. And pedestrians can move to 14 directions if there are no obstructions around them. Meanwhile, this paper proposes the concept and calculation rules of moving potential in the moving field. The moving potential provides reference for the movement of a pedestrian. Through the comparison of the measured values and the simulated values of an evacuation process in a building, it is proved that the model can accurately simulate the evacuation process of high density crowd.
- Due to the faster-is-slower phenomenon in emergency escape, it is desirable to regulate pedestrian flow at the exit or a bottleneck. Modification of pedestrian facilities was previously studied to increase the efficiency and safety by the transportation community. We propose a robot-assisted pedestrian regulation scheme and study passive human-robot interaction (HRI), where the robot acts as a dynamic obstacle that interacts with pedestrians. Such a robot-assisted solution replaces expensive infrastructure modification with real-time reconfigurability. In the paper, we first formulate a robot- assisted flow optimization problem based on the social force models of pedestrian dynamics with embedded HRI forces. We then present an online learning algorithm based on adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) to generate motion control so that the robot can replan and adapt its motion to real- time pedestrian flows. The ADP control process uses observed flow information only but not the models of pedestrians, and provides feedback control with online learning and control capability. Simulation results demonstrate efficiency of the proposed method.
Due to the fast-is-slower phenomenon in emergency escape, it is desirable to regulate pedestrian flows at the exit or a bottleneck. We propose a new robot-assisted pedestrian regulation and study passive human-robot interaction (HRI). A learning-based motion control approach is presented for a robot to efficiently interact with pedestrians for desirable collective motion. We first formulate the problem into an optimal control framework using the pedestrian dynamics description based on existing social force models with embedded HRI forces. To solve the defined optimal control problem, we propose an adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) approach to provide adjustable motion parameters of the robot to efficiently interact with pedestrians so that the regulated pedestrian flow tracks a desired velocity. The ADP control process only uses observed flow information rather than the models of pedestrians, and the ADP method provides feedback control with online learning and control capability. Simulation results demonstrate that the proposed approach can regulate pedestrian flows to desirable speeds by online learning.
-Pedestrian flow in densely populated or congested areas usually presents irregular or turbulent motion state due to competitive behaviors of individual pedestrians, which reduces flow efficiency and raises the risk of crowd accidents. Effective pedestrian flow regulation strategies are highly valuable for flow optimization. Existing studies seek for optimal design of indoor architectural features and spatial placement of pedestrian facilities for the purpose of flow optimization. However, once placed, the stationary facilities are not adaptive to real-time flow changes. In this paper, we investigate the problem of regulating two merging pedestrian flows in a bottleneck area using a mobile robot moving among the pedestrian flows. The pedestrian flows are regulated through dynamic human-robot interaction (HRI) during their collective motion. We adopt an adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) method to learn the optimal motion parameters of the robot in real time, and the resulting outflow through the bottleneck is maximized with the crowd pressure reduced to avoid potential crowd disasters. The proposed algorithm is a data-driven approach that only uses camera observation of pedestrian flows without explicit models of pedestrian dynamics and HRI. Extensive simulation studies are performed in both MATLAB and a robotic simulator to verify the proposed approach and evaluate the performances.
Evacuation behavior of social small groups in buildings is a popular research topic. There is usually only one group type, such as "leader-follower", in most group evacuation studies. This paper conducts empirical studies on the behavioral characteristics of social small group evacuees in order to determine the group types and their decision-making mechanism. Then, the exit and speed of evacuation strategies of different types of social small groups are obtained. Moreover, we present an improved social force model that considers different group decisions. Finally, to verify the effectiveness of the proposed method, the total evacuation time and the goal selection of the improved model are simulated and compared. The results show that the model of this paper can simulate multiple types of social small group evacuation behaviors in actual scenarios and complex building environments, such as high-density crowd evacuation. The model can also be used as an important tool in the study of social small group evacuation behaviors in complex scenes.
- A Simulation of human behavior are challenge topics of research in computer intelligent that has many benefits, such as to create a simulation of evacuation plan in a building when a disaster happens, like a fire and an earthquake. For evacuation of the building simulation of human behavior is needed to know which path will be passed through by the crowd. This animation simulation will use particle swarm algorithm optimization as the algorithm based with multiple behaviors and multiple targets. In this simulation, we add the behaviour of avoiding crashed between human and the algorithm modification is done which is a leader character is added. The leader behavior will lead the other agent to get out of the room. This agent based simulation movement will simulate movement in a room when an alarm signal is given, then the agent will get out of the room either individually or in groups. In this research we will use three scenario.We will compared the use of multiple target than single target and the use of leader follower behavior in any different number of agents.From the test result is obtained that the use of multiple target is much better result than use a single target and the behavior of the agent is depend on the movement of the crowd. Utilization of multibehavior with the leader characteristic who direct the other agent to reach target is more useful because it will reach the target more faster but the number of agents will affect the optimal number of leader needed.
-This research employs Reciprocal Velocity Obsta- cles (RVO) to create oscillation- and collision-free motion with multiagent navigation. By combining RVO with the steering behaviour i.e. leader following behaviour thus creating leader- follower relationship between agents. This relationship leads to the navigation to their shared destination. Each agent i.e. follower navigates to follow their leader to reach their destination together. Experimental result demonstrates the navigation of hundreds of agents in densely populated environments which showing 18% faster compared with relation-less navigation to achieve the crowd goal.
A 3D mass evacuation simulation using precise kinematic digital human (KDH) models and an experimental study are discussed. The tidal wave associated with the large tsunami caused by the Great East Japan Earthquake was responsible for more than 90% of the disaster casualties. Unfortunately, it is expected that other huge tsunamis could occur in Japan coastal areas if an earthquake with magnitude greater than 8 occurred along the Nankai Trough. Therefore, recent disaster prevention plans should include evacuation to higher buildings, elevated ground, and construction of tsunami evacuation towers. In the evacuation simulation with 500 KDHs, the mass consists of several subgroups. It is shown that the possible evacuation path of each group should be carefully determined to minimize the evacuation time. Several properties such as evacuee motion characteristics of KDHs, number of evacuees, exit gates and, number of injured persons were carefully considered in the simulation. Evacuee motion was also experimentally investigated by building a test field that simulates the structure of an actual tsunami evacuation tower for accommodating approximately 120 evacuees. The experimental results suggest that an appropriately divided group population may effectively reduce the overall group evacuation time. The results also suggest that the fatigue due to walking during evacuation adversely affect the total evacuation time, especially the ascent of stairways. The experimental data can be used to obtain more accurate simulations of mass evacuation.
Evacuation in buildings during emergency situations is crucial to the safety of people, therefore a pragmatic response plan is desirable. Due to the lack of awareness in buildings, either occupants have to wait for instructions from the administration or to start following each other to find the best evacuation route for them on the basis of hit and trial method. In this regard, we present a context-aware smart architecture for evacuation that provides real-time evacuation routes to occupants with respect to their characteristics. We also put forward a two-phase group evacuation technique in which people evacuate in the form of groups under the supervision of experts so-called group leaders. The first phase handles the assembly of evacuees at their allotted collection points and in the second phase evacuees follow their group leaders to safe points. Group leaders are equipped with hand-held devices having live information of building, routes and their group members. A use case is also discussed in the paper as an application of the proposed technique.
Overcrowding during emergency evacuation can cause crowd stampede and trampling that will lead to serious injuries or fatalities. These situations are likely to occur in natural or man-made disasters in open or closed spaces. The inefficient building design such as the unsuitable placement of an exit door is one of the key factors that contribute to the above tragedies. Most existing works used a trial and error method for a single room scenario in finding optimal locations of the exit doors. The main limitation in these works is that it is not suitable for handling multi-room problems and more complex room arrangements, since such problems would require a tedious process. To overcome this limitation, Artificial Bee Colony (ABC) optimization algorithm based on stochastic method is proposed in this paper. Compared to other optimization techniques, this algorithm requires less control parameters to be tuned in finding the most optimal exit door locations. A crowd evacuation model based on the Social Force Model (SFM) is used in representing the crowd dynamics and becomes the basis for the cost functions for the optimizer. The presented methodology has shown that the optimum locations of exit doors for a multi-room scenario can improve the evacuation efficiency; by minimizing crowd evacuation times and maximizing the number of people being evacuated. It is also clearly demonstrated that the optimized design is remarkable in improving the evacuation efficiency under different desired speed of crowd to evacuate.
Providing medical care during a mass event requires important situational awareness and preparation. Significant planning and relationship building provides a foundation for creating an operational outline, and establishing crowd dynamics and expectations for related medical activities. Collaboration with stakeholders will provide insight into the operations of various other event management entities, and allows for more seamless operations during the event. Once an operational plan has been established and circulated, the event medical team can be prepared for the expected external and crowd conditions and respond appropriately, while maintaining vigilance for any emergency that may arise. Contingency planning is key for the medical team to have appropriate emergency response defaults. Special attention is also needed on communications strategies for real-time intel, information dissemination, and crowd management. Once the event reaches its end, it is important to establish stand-down procedures to be followed as the crowd disperses to ensure an orderly event closure. After action reports can provide valuable insights for future crowd management.
-Nowadays, most coastal regions face a potential risk of tsunami. The evacuation is one of the most effective mitigation procedures. Howerver, there are always the part of evacuees (e.g. the tourist) who lack information of the evacuation map, which motivates us to focus on the problem of optimizing of guidance sign placement for tsunami evacuation. Concretely, we must find out an optimal sign placement in order to have as many evacuees as possible to reach shelters before tsunami arrival. In fact, most studies focus on two approaches: Agent-Based modeling and Equation-Based modeling. Each approach has its own pros and cons. While the Agent-Based modeling introduces an accurate but very slow model, the Equation-Based one provides a very fast but inaccurate model. The idea of this study is that we learn the accurate Agent-Based model and adapt it into very fast Equation-Based model in order to solve the optimizing problem. In this paper, we present clearly two models representing the two approaches and pros and cons of each model. We then propose a reinforcement learning approach for adapting complex Agent-Based model into a very fast Linear Model (representing Equation-Based modeling approach). By experimentation, our proposed approach shows that we can replace a slow complex model by a very fast model with an acceptable level of accuracy in order to solve optimizing problem.
In this paper, social network analysis method is applied to verify that daily life social relation is an important factor affecting individual and group behaviors and evacuation efficiency. Evacuation experiments are conducted by carrying out 15 multi-mode collaborative evacuation drills including 6 in 2014 and 9 in 2015.The same group of 30 evacuees from a undergraduate class has been tracked for two years. Social network method is used to study following behavior, leading behavior and decision-making behavior in evacuation experiments. Through the questionnaires before and after all the evacuation drills, by defining the mutual trust degree (MTD) and being followed degree (BFD), the MTD relation matrix on daily life and the BFD relation matrix in evacuation can be constructed. Then normal social relation network graph and following relation network graph in emergency are drawn. Results show that small groups and leaders will be formed automatically during group evacuation, and the leaders in emergency demonstrate some certain stability, which has some relevance with gender and relations in normal situation. When two emergency exits are available during evacuation including stair and elevator, evacuation efficiency is best when the elevator and stair are located at the same side.
Pedestrians can be modeled as self-driven particles influenced by ''social forces'' in emergency evacuation scenarios. It has been suggested by recent studies that placing an obstacle near the exit can boost evacuation efficiency. Here we consider the situation that pedestrians are not acquainted with the evacuation environment, that is, pedestrians cannot specify the location of the exit. By dividing the evacuation space into different areas, the improved ''social force model'' was adopted to compare the path selection and evacuation tactic of pedestrians under the condition of complete and incomplete evacuation information. The simulations reveal that the total evacuation time depends on complex elements, such as the desired velocity, parameters of obstacle. There are some optimal values of these factors resulting in the minimum value of total evacuation time. Moreover, we also consider that when pedestrians are not fully aware of the evacuation information, the pedestrians flow rate is not necessarily altered by the presence of an obstacle. As the value of the pedestrian perception range increases, evacuation efficiency will be enhanced. When the value of perception range exceeds a certain threshold, the evacuation efficiency is contingent on the distance between pedestrians and the door. More importantly, we explore how to improve evacuation efficiency under these settings. We hope to offer some insights into effective emergency evacuations.
- The motion of pedestrian crowds can be described as if they are subject to "social forces". Grouping, as a common phenomenon in pedestrian behaviors, plays a decisive role in affecting evacuation efficiency. Here we propose two different group evacuation (GE) regimes, namely the leaderless GE and leadership GE, to explore the evacuation dynamics of group- structured pedestrians. Simulation results show that elevating sizes or numbers of these groups can promote evacuation efficiency when individuals all try to move fast, in contrast to the case of small desired velocities. More importantly, with the same group size and group number, leadership GE outperforms leaderless GE, implying the positive effect of adopting appropriate community leaders. We hope that these observations could provide some insight into pedestrians' collective action during the evacuation process. Copyright c⃝EPLA, 2019
Human1 relationships are a common characteristic of pedestrians and have important effects on evacuation behavior. Moreover, the presence of leaders also affects the evacuation efficiency of the crowd. Few scholars considered the influence of social relationships and leaders on group evacuation behavior. Motivated by the need an optimization model named PD-SLEM is proposed for simulating the outdoor crowd evacuation during earthquake considering the impact of social relationships and leaders. Depending on the willingness to escape together with partners, multiple social relationships are abstractly classified into three aggregation relationships. Experiment results demonstrate that leaders in the crowd, especially professional disaster relief volunteers, significantly improve the evacuation efficiency. CCS CONCEPTS   Software and its engineering   Software creation and management
Social relation network and group behavior are critical in building evacuation. In this paper, six building evacuation experiments are designed and carried out to study the social relation and group behavior in evacuation, and to explore how social relation influence participants' behavior when they can use elevators as egress. Evacuees are all from one undergraduate class with 30 students. The pre-existing social relations such as friends, girl and boy friends, classmates, and roommates are known. Experiments 1-3 are conducted to study the participants' Social Relation Network (SRN) based on analyzing social network questionnaires. Results indicate that the crowd in evacuation form different small groups based on the pre-existing SRN, and the average influence degree of social relation affected on the leader-and-follower behavior in evacuation experiment is 78.3%. In addition, there are three kinds of evacuees in evacuation experiment, including leaders, followers and lonely evacuees. Experiments 4-6 are carried out to study how social relation, elevator egress and evacuation experience influence their behavior in evacuation. Participants are divided into pairs based on their SRN and the Mutual Believed Degree (MBD) method. It is found that social relation can enhance participants' speeds (participants are young students), and influence their decision making on selecting stairs or elevators for evacuation. Their speeds follow the Normal Distribution N(1.16, 0.18). Several interesting phenomena are observed in the experiments, such as redirection and overtaking. In addition, if the elevators cannot be properly used, evacuation will be delayed.
In existing evacuation methods, the large number of pedestrians and the complex environment will affect the efficiency of evacuation. Therefore, we propose a hierarchical evacuation method based on multi-agent deep reinforcement learning (MADRL) to solve the above problem. First, we use a two-level evacuation mechanism to guide evacuations, the crowd is divided into leaders and followers. Second, in the upper level, leaders perform path planning to guide the evacuation. To obtain the best evacuation path, we propose the efficient multi-agent deep deterministic policy gradient (E-MADDPG) algorithm for crowd-evacuation path planning. E-MADDPG algorithm combines learning curves to improve the fixed experience pool of MADDPG algorithm and uses high- priority experience playback strategy to improve the sampling strategy. The improvement increases the learning efficiency of the algorithm. Meanwhile we extract pedestrian motion trajectories from real motion videos to reduce the state space of algorithm. Third, in the bottom layer, followers use the relative velocity obstacle (RVO) algorithm to avoid collisions and follow leaders to evacuate. Finally, experimental results illustrate that the E- MADDPG algorithm can improve path planning efficiency, while the proposed method can improve the effi ciency of crowd evacuation.
Pedestrians will form groups in both normal and emergency sometimes. Members of these groups usually have certain social relations. We study emergency evacuation of pedestrians in a pediatric hospital in this paper. Pedestrians there have their own particularities. First of all, all patients are children. Secondly, the patients usually have no ability to see a doctor alone. They are always accompanied by their families. Thirdly, children of different ages move at different speeds, which is heterogeneous. Fourthly, pedestrians usually move in family units. Family units and independent pedestrians are also heterogeneous. According to our actual observations, pedestrians are mostly composed of three-person groups, two-person groups and independent ones. Each group usually has one leader and the rest are followers. We use an extended cellular automata model considering groups to study such evacuation. The rule of both overlapping and speeding up are set in the model to realize the change from heterogeneous to homogeneous from the view of speed. The local density field and its range R are introduced. The field can lead pedestrians move to the area with low density. The range R=4 is optimal because of the family relation. The priority order is added to avoid conflicts. Groups with child have priority over independent pedestrians. The cohesive distance between leader and follower ensures members of the group always stay together, but the shape of the group is changeable in simulations. The evacuation time, waiting time and path of each pedestrian are
In dense crowd evacuation, especially in emergencies such as fires, the safe evacuation of large public facilities will face major challenges. At the same time, as cluster congestion tends to occur in the space where the flow rate drops sharply, the superposition of fire incidents and bottleneck areas can easily evolve into malignant disasters and crowd stampedes with serious harm and influence. In this paper, Massmotion based on social force model is used to carry out a numerical simulation on exit position and corner exit form to find out the mechanism and influence law of the slight architectural adjustment on the flow at bottleneck. The results show that the traditional middle exit design is not the best, and the evacuation efficiency of the corner exit is higher than that of the middle exit. Compared with other corner exits, the average time interval between two adjacent persons passing through the bottleneck under the 30° corner exit is the shortest, and the probability of outlet clogging drops the fastest, exceeding 18% of the slowest descending speed. At the 0° corner exit, the waiting time cost of pedestrians is high and the risk of evacuation is high. The outcomes of this work can provide reference for the structural design of the building and the safe evacuation of personnel, so as to improve the evacuation efficiency and safety of pedestrians in the building to some extent.
This paper analyzes the characteristics of emotion state and group behavior in the evacuation process. During the emergency evacuation, emotion state and group behavior are interacting with each other, and indivisible. The emotion spread model with the effect of group behavior, and the leader-follower model with the effect of emotion state are proposed. On this basis, exit choice strategies with the effect of emotion state and group behavior are proposed. Fusing emotion spread model, leader-follower model, and exit choice strategies into a cellular automata (CA)-based pedestrian simulation model, we simulate the evacuation process in a multi-exit case. Simulation results indicate that panic emotion and group behavior are two negative influence factors for pedestrian evacuation. Compared with panic emotion or group behavior only, pedestrian evacuation efficiency with the effects of both is lower.
-The safety indication signs (SISs) are indispens- able direction environmental information indicators for crowd evacuation. However, given that pedestrians have different acceptance and understanding of environmental information, the application effect of SISs in evacuation management is still limited. This article proposed a new crowd division and leader selection algorithm based on the leader-follower phenomenon to improve the guiding effect of SISs. The configuration of SIS is similar to the sensing area of sensors. According to the guide role of SISs in evacuation direction and route selection, we divide the crowd into the leaders and followers based on pedestrians' visual distance and visual field. A modified PRM algorithm is proposed to consider the SISs in path planning. The crowd behavior is decided by a movement-driving approach that combines the reciprocal velocity obstacle (RVO) model and a modified social force model (SFM). The proposed approach can adapt the application of sensors in evacuation management. Several evacuation simulations are conducted to verify the proposed approach in different scenarios and evaluate the results in terms of evacuation efficiency and reasonableness of SISs' placement. The result illustrates that the approach is appropriate for evacuation guiding in large outdoor scenes or indoor buildings.
This study proposes a cellular automata ant memory model (CAAM) that controls a robot swarm when undertaking the foraging task in a previously known environment with nests. The floor field is well known to all robots, which share the same environment, communi- cating through the inverted pheromone. This substance is deposited by each swarm robot over every step in searching, which results in a repulsive force between team members. Besides, a short-term memory inspired by Tabu Search is applied to enable robots to re- member their last positions and to avoid useless explorations. On the other hand, homing is based on the behavior observed in pedestrian evacuation, resulting in an attractive force through the nests. Moreover, a dynamic information is used to avoid queues of robots and bottlenecks next to the nests. Each robot step is a first choice movement with a stochastic conflict solver, which results in a non-deterministic characteristic to the model. The proposed model was implemented and submitted to several simulations to evaluate its re- sultant behavior. Different environmental conditions were employed to refine its intrinsic parameters. The results shown that the proposed model is able to perform the foraging task in a competitive way: in searching the swarm perform a good environment coverage and in homing robots are able to find the most adequate nests.
In this paper, we integrate a cellular automaton model with game theory to simulate crowd evacuation from a room with consideration of obstacle removal. The room has one or more exits, one of which is blocked by obstacles. The obstacles at the exit can be removed by volunteers. We investigate the cooperative and defective behaviors of pedestrians during evacuation. The yielder game and volunteer's dilemma game are employed to resolve interpedestrian conflict. An anticipation floor field is proposed to guide the pedestrians to avoid obstacles that are being removed. We conducted experiments to determine how a variety of conditions affect overall crowd evacuation and volunteer evacuation times. The conditions were the start time of obstacle removal, number of obstacles, placement of obstacles, time spent in obstacle removal, strength of the anticipation floor field, and obstacle visibility distance. We demonstrate how reciprocity can be achieved among pedestrians and increases the efficiency of the entire evacuation process.
A social force model is developed in this paper to study the crowd evacuation when a terrorist attack occurs in the public place. The persons in the model are divided into two groups-terrorists and pedestrians. On one hand, each terrorist chooses the nearest pedestrian as the target. Once the distance between him and his target is small enough, the terrorist will launch attacks on his target and the target will be killed with a certain probability. On the other hand, each pedestrian tries to avoid the terrorists and reach the exits. An emergency exit choice strategy which emphasizes the security risk factor is developed for pedestrians. The main simulation results are summarized as follows. First, the number of deaths in the terrorist attack increases with the number of terrorists and with the density of pedestrians. If the number of exits decreases, the death toll will become more sensitive to the change of the density of pedestrians. Second, adding the number of exits can significantly reduce casualties. Third, more pedestrians will be killed and the evacuation speed will be reduced if terrorists start the attack from the positions of the exits. Fourth, the emergency exit choice strategy has an advantage over the ordinary exit choice strategy in daily life for reducing casualties. The more unbalanced the terrorists' initial distribution around the exits is, the more noticeable this advantage will be. Fifth, the number of deaths will decrease obviously if at least half of the exits are available and safe. Our study is valuable for developing an effective evacuation scheme to reduce casualties in a terrorist attack.
A social force model is proposed in this paper to study the effect of dedicated exit on the evacuation of heterogeneous pedestrians in a public place. In this model, pedestrians are divided into two groups-powerful pedestrians and weak pedestrians, who have different walking abilities. Several exit design schemes are compared through simulations in a regular room. The main results are: (1) Building a new exit as weak group's dedicated exit can simultaneously reduce each group's average evacuation time and maximum evacuation time. (2) Reconstructing an existing ordinary exit as weak group's dedicated exit can reduce weak pedestrians' average evacuation time but may increase their maximum evacuation time. (3) If the total number of exits is fixed, compared with the non-dedicated exit scheme, the scheme which designs dedicated exits for each group separately may reduce weak group's evacuation speed. (4) If the sum of widths of all the exits is fixed, the ratio of width between the dedicated exit and the ordinary exit has a significant effect on each group's evacuation. The optimal ratio depends on the proportion of weak pedestrians. Finally, a real-world example which involves the evacuation issue in a waiting hall with security checkpoints is used to show the effectiveness of women-only exits in improving the crowd evacuation efficiency. Particularly, it is found that a suitable women-only exit scheme can achieve a win-win situation for both male pedestrians and female pedestrians in the crowd evacuation.
Highlights   We propose an Extended Social Force Model (ESFM) by adding a visual parameter for prejudging the congestion of the exits.   We present an Improved Artificial Bee Colony (IABC) algorithm by employing the strategies of grouping and multiple exits selection.   We simulate crowd evacuation by our new path planning algorithm which combines ESFM and the IABC algorithm. Abstract: This paper proposes a new path planning approach for emergency evacuation simulation. This technique combines the Extended Social Force Model (ESFM) and the Improved Artificial Bee Colony (IABC) algorithm to enhance the visual realism and improve the efficiency of crowd evacuation. In the ESFM, we introduce a visual parameter to the original SFM and obtain the anisotropic psychological force rather than the isotropic one in the SFM so as to better fit crowd behaviors, such as long-range obstacle avoidance and self-organizing group formation. In addition, the IABC algorithm is proposed to improve the evacuation efficiency and provide support for building design and evacuation management by employing the strategies of grouping and exit selection. The algorithm uses the evacuation time of the individuals as the evaluation metric. If an exit is overcrowded and congested, the individuals will assess the degree of congestion, estimate the time needed to escape, and determine whether to select a farther exit for escape. By selecting the optimal exit and avoiding congestion, the evacuation efficiency can be improved. We have simulated the crowd evacuation with our new path planning approach via a crowd evacuation simulation system. The results show the effectiveness of our method.
This paper proposes a video data-driven social force model for simulating crowd evacuation. The initialization of pedestrian position, path navigation, and goal selection in the improved social force model was guided by real video data. To initialize pedestrian position and determine path navigation, the distribution of the pedestrians is set according to the real video. We also extracted the trajectories of pedestrian movement from the videos, and these trajectories were stored into a path set to guide the evacuation of pedestrians. Moreover, a fitness function was defined to model the behavior of a pedestrian goal selection. The fitness function could process the evacuation parameters, which were extracted from the video, and consider the degree and distance of exit congestion. Furthermore, we quantified the relationship values among pedestrians, and a new force called "group force" was added to the primary social force model. Pedestrians with close relationship gathered into one group and walked together. To validate the effectiveness of the proposed method, the video data-driven model was applied to simulate campus halls and roads. Simulation results show that the proposed approach is consistent with real-world situations and can assist in analyzing emergency evacuation scenarios.
Making unconventional emergent plan for dense crowd is one of the critical issues of evacuation simulations. In order to make the behavior of crowd more believable, we present a real-time evacuation route approach based on emotion and geodesic under the influence of individual emotion and multi-hazard circumstances. The proposed emotion model can reflect the dynamic process of individual in group on three factors: individual emotion, perilous field, and crowd emotion. Specifically, we first convert the evacuation scene to Delaunay triangulation representations. Then, we use the optimization-driven geodesic approach to calculate the best evacuation path with user-specified geometric constraints, such as crowd density, obstacle information, and perilous field. Finally, the Smooth Particle Hydrodynamics method is used for local avoidance of collisions with nearby agents in real-time simulation. Extensive experimental results show that our algorithm is efficient and well suited for real-time simulations of crowd evacuation.
This paper presents a crowd evacuation simulation approach that is based on navigation knowledge and two-layer control mechanism. In this approach, using the multi-population cultural algorithm framework, the control mechanism of the crowd evacuation simulation is divided into two parts, namely, the belief and population spaces. The population space is divided into groups (sub-populations), and a leader is selected in each group according to a fitness value. The belief space comprises multiple agents and a knowledge base. Each navigation agent corresponds to a group leader. A navigation agent obtains a leader's position through the acceptance function and later passes the information to the knowledge base. On the basis of the position, the obstacles, and the congestion situation provided by the navigation agent, the knowledge base management agent dynamically plans the path and provides the navigation agent the next position along the path. The navigation agent later passes the information to the leader through the affection function. The individuals in the group follow the leader through the social force model in moving to the location provided by the navigation agent. The entire process is repeated until the exit is reached. The path information that successfully reached the exit is recorded, and the knowledge base is updated. This method establishes the relationship between the population and the navigation agent with knowledge and transforms a blindly moving crowd into a guided evacuation as the mass evacuation simulation problem is decomposed into a sub-problem of moving blocks. This approach effectively solves the problem of microscopic models because each individual calculates the path and resolves the slow speed problem. The simulation results illustrate the effectiveness of this method.
In the crowd evacuation process, pedestrians will produce self- organization phenomenon. Family members, friends and other closely related people will be formed group according to the degree of intimacy. The closer the relationship between people, the higher their aggregation in the group. Although the original social force model can simulate arching in the portals, "faster-is slower" and other phenomena. But in the process of movement, pedestrians are an isolated individuals, who have no association with the rest of surrounding people. This cannot truly reflect the group characteristics during crowd movement process. To simulate this pedestrian behavior in the process of movement, a social groups force model is proposed. However, the social groups model does not take the influence of strength of group membership on the group behavior into account. In view of the above shortcomings, this paper proposes a pedestrian social groups force model based on relationship strength. To consider the influence of the relationship strength on the group attribution force in the model, the model can reflect the features of pedestrian behaviors in the process of movement, and achieve a more efficient and more realistic crowd movement.
The study of crowd evacuation dynamics is important for the management of public safety, and crowd evacuation dynamics models can be used to simulate the behaviors of pedestrians during an evacuation. In this paper, we propose a new force model for simulation of the evacuation of complex environments. In comparison to existing models, this model considers more environmental factors to make it applicable to complex emergency environments. By verification using real data, the model is demonstrated to be able to predict evacuation efficiency and better reproduce the microscopic behavior of pedestrians under extreme conditions. We discuss the impact of the presence of different kinds of hazards and different types of obstacles in the environment on pedestrian evacuation performance and put forward suggestions for crowd evacuation management.
The mechanisms underlying the emergence of leadership in multi-agent systems are under investigation in many areas of research where group coordination is involved. Nonverbal leadership has been mostly investigated in the case of animal groups, and only a few works address the problem in human ensembles, e.g. pedestrian walking, group dance. In this paper we study the emergence of leadership in the specific scenario of a small walking group. Our aim is to propose a rigorous mathematical methodology capable of unveiling the mechanisms of leadership emergence in a human group when leader or follower roles are not designated a priori. Two groups of participants were asked to walk together and turn or change speed at self-selected times. Data were analysed using time-dependent cross correlation to infer leader-follower interactions between each pair of group members. The results indicate that leadership emergence is due both to contextual factors, such as an individual's position in the group, and to personal factors, such as an individual's characteristic locomotor behaviour. Our approach can easily be extended to larger groups and other scenarios such as team sports and emergency evacuations.
With the development of modern cities, metro are playing an increasingly important role in urban traffic. A biochemical terrorist attack in a metro station can cause many casualties. Therefore, more attention should be paid to metro emergency management. This paper presents a guidance scheme based on an improved empirical formula to optimize emergency evacuation. Additionally, the guidance evacuation model combined the social force model with pedestrian characteristics to study the influence of pedestrian behaviors on guidance evacuation. The experiment results show the following: (1) A guidance scheme based on an improved empirical formula can significantly reduce the casualties and improve the efficiency of evacuation; (2) The guidance evacuation model can be used to find the reasonable guidance locations and the combination of guides. (3) Pedestrian characteristics must be taken into account in the research of the guidance evacuation. Analyzing the behavioral characteristics of pedestrian can provide improvement measures for guidance evacuation. This paper focuses on the simulation experiments of emergency evacuation in metro station, which can provide practical references for developing an efficient and safe emergency evacuation scheme.
A critical aspect of crowds' evacuation processes is the dynamism of individual decision making. Identifying optimal strategies at an individual level may improve both evacuation time and safety, which is essential for developing efficient evacuation systems. Here, we investigate how to favor a coordinated group dynamic through optimal exit-choice instructions using behavioral strategy optimization. We propose and evaluate an adaptive guidance system (Cell-based Crowd Evacuation, CellEVAC) that dynamically allocates colors to cells in a cell- based pedestrian positioning infrastructure, to provide efficient exit-choice indications. The operational mod ule of CellEVAC implements an optimized discrete-choice model that integrates the influential factors that would make evacuees adapt their exit choice. To optimize the model, we used a simulation-optimization modeling framework that integrates microscopic pedestrian simulation based on the classical Social Force Model. In the majority of studies, the objective has been to optimize evacuation time. In contrast, we paid particular attention to safety by using Pedestrian Fundamental Diagrams that model the dynamics of the exit gates. CellEVAC has been tested in a simulated real scenario (Madrid Arena) under different external pedestrian flow patterns that simulate complex pedestrian interactions. Results showed that CellEVAC outperforms evacuation processes in which the system is not used, with an exponential improvement as interactions become complex. We compared our system with an existing approach based on Cartesian Genetic Programming. Our system exhibited a better overall performance in terms of safety, evacuation time, and the number of revisions of exit-choice decisions. Further analyses also revealed that Cartesian Genetic Programming generates less natural pedestrian reactions and movements than CellEVAC. The fact that the decision logic module is built upon a behavioral model seems to favor a more natural and effective response. We also found that our proposal has a positive influence on evac uations even for a low compliance rate (40%).
The challenge of controlling crowd movement at large events expands not only to the realm of emergency evacuations but also to improving non-critical conditions related to operational efficiency and comfort. In both cases, it becomes necessary to develop adaptive crowd motion control systems. In particular, adaptive cell-based crowd evacuation systems dynamically generate exit-choice recommendations favoring a coordinated group dynamic that improves safety and evacuation time. We investigate the viability of using this mechanism to develop a ''leader-follower'' evacuation system in which a trained evacuation staff guides evacuees safely to the exit gates. To validate the proposal, we use a simulation-optimization framework integrating microscopic simulation. Evacuees' behavior has been modeled using a three-layered architecture that includes eligibility, exit-choice changing, and exit-choice models, calibrated with hypothetical-choice experiments. As a significant contribution of this work, the proposed behavior models capture the influence of leaders on evacuees, which is translated into exit- choice decisions and the adaptation of speed. This influence can be easily modulated to evaluate the evacuation efficiency under different evacuation scenarios and evacuees' behavior profiles. When measuring the efficiency of the evacuation processes, particular attention has been paid to safety by using pedestrian Macroscopic Fundamental Diagrams (p-MFD), which model the crowd movement dynamics from a macroscopic perspective. The spatiotemporal view of the evacuation performance in the form of crowd-pressure vs. density values allowed us to evaluate and compare safety in different evacuation scenarios reasonably and consistently. Experimental results confirm the viability of using adaptive cell-based crowd evacuation systems as a guidance tool to be used by evacuation staff to guide evacuees. Interestingly, we found that evacuation staff motion speed plays a crucial role in balancing egress time and safety. Thus, it is expected that by instructing evacuation staff to move at a predefined speed, we can reach the desired balance between evacuation time, accident probability, and comfort.
In the study of pedestrian movements, a consideration of group behaviors is important because of their potential impacts on pedestrian flow dynamics. In this paper, we investigate the group behaviors during emergency evacuation, which is a critical case for emergency crowd management but has not been fully explored and understood. It has been well recognized that in evacuation situations, some people within a crowd, especially those who are with families and friends, often move in small groups and act in particular patterns distinct from individuals. As a result, the crowd is a mixture of individuals and groups rather than a pure collection of individuals. To capture and evaluate the influence of group behaviors on crowd evacuation, we propose an extended floor field cellular automaton (CA) model that takes into account such phenomena. Our model is formulated by leveraging the leader-follower behavior rule that is evident in pedestrian group behaviors. To calibrate and validate the proposed model, a few field experiments of crowd evacuation were conducted in a university building. Through a representative case study, it is demonstrated that the proposed extended floor field CA model can replicate the well-known phenomena in crowd evacuation such as collective arch-like clogging at the exit as well as other commonly observed group behaviors in evacuation. Moreover, it is found that the total crowd evacuation time significantly increases with the presence of pedestrian groups in the crowd. The results also show that such negative effects of group behaviors in crowd evacuation intensify when the density of the crowd is higher. Subsequently, sensitivity analyses are performed to further explore how pedestrian group behaviors are influenced by model parameters that reflect the pedestrian flow dynamics in evacuation scenarios. With its capability of realistically replicating the field pedestrian evacuation, the proposed model can serve as a valuable tool for predicting crowd evacuation time and designing guidelines for pedestrian evacuation in emergency situations, in particular when group behaviors are salient.  2016 Elsevier Ltd.
Terrorist attacks lead to huge social cost, and, especially, mass shooting cases result in massive deaths and injuries worldwide. Hence, it is necessary to explore the accurate and dynamic processes of mass shooting cases. Taking the Cinema Shooting case in 2012 as the real target case, the agent-based model is applied to explore the dynamics of human behaviors under common risk of shooting. Parameter tra- verse and repeated simulations can be used to obtain robust outcomes. According to real target case, the optimal solution with the highest matchiness can be obtained, which supports the validity and robust- ness of our agent-based model. Under this optimal solution, the same numbers of deaths and injuries can be achieved, and the dynamic process can be also back-calculated. Besides, we can infer counterfactual outcomes, which strengthens explanatory capability of our model. Hence, the multiple outcomes under different situations (settings or strategies) can be obtained, and optimal perception range R *can be solved as well. Combining agent-based model and counterfactual simulations, emergency responses, public governance, and facility designs will be improved.
Terrorists usually choose to attack soft targets, with low self-protection abilities and resistance strengths, such as schools, campus, public squares, railway stations, etc. Under great panic, civilians attacked tend to escape aimlessly and disorderly. Hence, colliding, pushing, and trampling will take place and lead to indirect deaths and injuries. If some heroes with the spirit of altruism, coming from civilians, stand up and fight terrorists bravely, the injuries and deaths will be greatly reduced. Agent- based modeling is built to explore the role of heroes during terrorist attacks. The particle system of three categories of agents, civilians, terrorists & heroes, is built to simulate the Peshawar School Case in 2014. Multiple action rules and mechanisms are introduced, such as swarm intelligence, information communication, self-organized behaviors, and heroic behaviors. We run each simulation repeatedly for 100 times to obtain averaged (robust) outcomes. The optimal combination of parameters, which best matches real outcomes, will be solved accordingly. It indicates that: (a) the self-organizing of crowd behaviors greatly improves the survival rate of civilians. Hence, well-planned trainings of counter- terrorists emergence responses can enhance capabilities of civilians; (b) people should learn from birds' swarm behavior in crowd evacuations. As a swarm intelligence pathway, small groups and information sharing during crowd escape simulations can greatly improve survival rates; and (c) the society should encourage more people to be altruistic heroes who are acting prosocially. Besides, it suggests that more heroes bring safer overall outcomes for civilians and even for heroes themselves.
- Robot-assisted interventions are often provided for crowd evacuation to prevent accidents and keep crowds safety, which is currently a hot topic of research. However, the existing work has ignored the impact of crowd motion chaos which is a fundamental factor determining the effective evacuation. To assist the crowd evacuation more efficiently and reduce the intervention costs, robots need to identify destructive individuals based on the randomly evolved chaos and intervene in them specifically. To this end, we propose a stochastic optimal intervention method to provide the optimal strategies for robot-assisted crowd evacuation. First, the definition of chaos is introduced to quantify the chaotic degree of crowd movement. Then, we study the stochastic evolution of chaos by exploring the chaos state transition with marked temporal point process (MTPP) and stochastic differential equations (SDEs). Next, the robot-assisted intervention is formulated as a stochastic optimal intervention problem that seeks to maximize the intervention utility. Fortunately, a closed-form solution is obtained by using the Bellman's principle of optimality and solving the derived Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) equation. At last, we develop an event-driven crowd motion system to simulate crowd evacuation process. The simulation results show that our method can prevent the occurrence of chaos effectively, and improve the efficiency of crowd evacuation significantly. The proposed method is expected to provide guidance for emergency management.
-In building emergency evacuation, the perception of hazards can stress crowds, evoke their competitive behaviors, and trigger disorder and blocking as they pass through narrow passages (e.g., a small exit). This is a serious concern threatening evacuees' survivability and egress efficiency. How to optimize crowd guidance while considering such effects is an important problem. Based on advanced microscopic pedestrian models and simulations, this paper establishes a new macroscopic network-flow model where fire, smoke, and psychological factors can evoke a crowd's desire to escape-the desired flow rate. Disorder and blocking occur when the desired flow rate exceeds the passage capacity, resulting in a drastic decrease of crowd movement in a nonlinear and random fashion. To effectively guide crowds, a divide-and-conquer approach is developed based on groups to reduce computational complexity and to reflect psychological findings. Egress routes for individual groups are optimized by using a novel combination of stochastic dynamic programming and the rollout scheme. These routes are then coordinated so that limited passage capacities are shared to meet the total need for joint movement. Numerical testing and simulation demonstrate that, compared with a strategy of merely using nearest exits, our solution can evacuate more people more rapidly by preventing or mitigating potential disorder and blocking at bottleneck passages. Notes to Practitioners-Effective building evacuation in case of emergencies, such as fire and smoke, has long been recognized as an important issue. Effective crowd guidance can improve evacuees' survivability and egress efficiency. In practice, most guidance (e.g., an exit sign) directs evacuees to the nearest exits. As crowds move and fire spreads over time, however, such guidance is ques- tionable because some exits may be overcrowded or obstructed by Manuscript received August 05, 2011; accepted March 22, 2012. This paper was recommended for publicatio
- Assistant mobile robots are designed to help people in diverse situations. To improve services provided, robots should keep close to the user. In this work, it is implemented a Human- Robot Interaction (HRI) approach for a guide robot application, where a fuzzy controller is proposed for adjusting the robot's speed based on the estimated user's speed. User velocity is computed with a vision algorithm which estimates user's position along a path. The guide process begins when the robot recognizes the user and then it proposes to guide him from an initial point to a given goal. To stay close to the user, the robot adjusts its linear velocity with a fuzzy PI+D controller. The reference signal of this controller is the user's velocity and the output is the linear velocity of the robot. To follow the correct path simultaneously, it has been implemented a second control based on fuzzy logic to manipulate the angular velocity of the robot over the given path. The results obtained for both controllers show that the robot is able to track a velocity reference along a path and follow a desired goal trajectory. To guarantee safe and efficient interaction between people and robot, social rules were established. 
Evacuation leaders (individuals guiding the crowd) can make crowd evacuation more efficient. Selecting their number and positions within the crowd is particularly important when the other evacuees are not familiar with the internal layout of the building. This paper investigates the effects of leadership on crowd evacuation in rooms with limited visibility range by an extended social force model. We find that, (i) For a large evacuees crowd, a small proportion of the evacuation leaders is already sufficient to guide the whole crowd efficiently, even if the visibility range of the room is very limited. And the smaller the crowd size, the larger the proportion of the leaders is needed to achieve a satisfactory evacuation guidance. (ii) The optimal proportion or number (i.e., the proportion or number that is necessary for guiding the crowd) of the leaders in an evacuees crowd to achieve a satisfactory guidance is related to the visibility range of the room and the distribution range of the evacuees crowd. (iii) Leadership is not always positive to the crowd evacuation. It may have a negative effect on crowd evacuation when the visibility range of the room and the size of the evacuees crowd are large enough. The findings provide a new insight into the effects of leadership on crowd evacuation.
Article history: Received 9 February 2017 Received in revised form 29 March 2017 Accepted 30 March 2017 Available online 1 April 2017 Communicated by C.R. Doering Keywords: Pedestrian evacuation Guidance Visibility Social force model This study investigates the effects of guide-based guidance on the pedestrian evacuation under limited visibility via the simulations based on an extended social force model. The results show that the effects of guides on the pedestrian evacuation under limited visibility are dual, and related to the neighbor density within the visual field. On the one hand, in many cases, the effects of guides are positive, particularly when the neighbor density within the visual field is moderate; in this case, a few guides can already assist the evacuation effectively and efficiently. However, when the neighbor density within the visual field is particularly small or large, the effects of guides may be adverse and make the evacuation time longer. Our results not only provide a new insight into the effects of guides on the pedestrian evacuation under limited visibility, but also give some practical suggestions as to how to assign guides to assist the evacuation under different evacuation conditions.
It is well known that a large percentage of occupants in a building are evacuated together with their friends, families, and officemates, especially in China. Small group behaviors are therefore critical for crowd movement. This paper aims to study the crowd dynamic considering different social relations and the impacts of small groups on crowd dynamics in emergency evacuation. Three experiments are conducted in an 11-storey office building. In the first two experiments, all participants are classmates and know each other well. They are evacuated as individuals or pairs. In the third experiment, social relations among the participants are complex. Participants consist of 8 families, 6 lovers and several individuals. Space-time features, speed characteristics and density-speed relations for each experiment are analyzed and compared. Results conclude that small group behaviors can make positive impacts on crowd dynamics when evacuees know each other and are cooperative. This conclusion is also testified by four verified experiments. In the third experiment, speeds of evacuees are lowest. Small groups form automatically with the presence of intimate social relations. Small groups in this experiment slow down the average speed of the crowd and make disturbance on the crowd flow. Small groups in this case make negative impacts on the movement of the crowd. It is because that evacuees do not know each other and they are competitive to each other. Characteristics of different types of small groups are also investigated. Experimental data can provide foundational parameters for evacuation model development and are helpful for building designers.
The cultural museum is one of the places with a large flow of people. Once an emergency occurs, if the people are not evacuated in time, the consequences will be unimaginable. In the event of an emergency, the population speed and evacuation effect are linear in the case of a small population density. However, when the population density is large, the population speed and evacuation effect are nonlinear. The traditional method is aimed at evacuation control with a small density and a smooth change in a large flow of people. When the density is large, the evacuation speed cannot be too fast, and once the pedalling event occurs, the stability of the model is destroyed. In order to solve the above problems, this paper takes a large-scale crowd of cultural museum as the studied object and proposes a large-scale crowd evacuation method based on the mutation theory of RFID (radio frequency identification). The algorithm uses the mutation prediction RFID to judge the arrival rate change trend by the arrival rate reverse mutation rule, so that the modelling length can dynamically adapt to the RFID tag arrival rate change and overcome the contradiction between the prediction accuracy and the tracking speed. The accuracy of the algorithm to predict the flow of large-scale people is improved, making the evacuation model more relevant to the actual situation. Through the experiment tests on typical scenes, the evacuation control problems of four groups of people are analysed and discussed. The results prove that the evacuation method proposed in this paper can provide guidance for crowd evacuation in the cultural museum.
The pedestrian evacuation process during the propagation of smoke in case with and without guider is investigated. The effects of leaders on the evacuation are considered. The model is based on the social force model for pedestrians' motions. The advection-diffusion equation is applied for the dispersion of smoke. The movement direction of a guider is guided by the solution of the Eikonal equation. It relies on the desired speed and the smoke density. A pedestrian who is not a guider follows the rule termed 'flow with the stream' and 'following the wall'. We perform different numerical experiments in a room with one and two exits. The results show that the guiders effect on the evacuation time when they are large number of individuals in simulation. It can help to increase the number of evacuees. With small number of individuals in the experiment, the effect of guiders on evacuation time is not obvious. Further, simulation results are found that the domain with two exits provides higher number of outside pedestrians than the domain with a single door. Longer evacuation time period can increase the number of evacuees. The visibility range of a pedestrian is reduced when an additional smoke source is added to the system. It decreases the number of evacuees. The results of the proposed model are discussed and compared with the existing models.
Simulation on crowd evacuation has attracted plenty of attention in the past few years. Emotion plays a significant role in human decision making processes and on the behaviors during the evacuation. Moreover, grouping is a common phenomenon in crowds, and there are a lot of roles included in a group. In this paper, we present a unified framework to model the structure aspect of the groups with emotion for a crowd suffering fires and explosions in public areas. The proposed evacuation framework consists of two components: (1) an emotion model for various roles in the case of an emergency. Emotional changing is a complex process where different roles are influenced by different factors. (2) Both intra-group structure and inter-group relationship are considered to simulate the herd phenomenon in emergency. The structure and behaviors of a group are related to the emotions of different roles. A follower can decide whether to leave the group or not according to the emotion of the group leader and the one of his own, thus the members of the group may always dynamically change. Simulation results show that the developed framework can practically model the emotion changing and different group structures of evacuation crowds.
Most of current crowd simulation methods have considered the impact of interin- dividual emotion on the agent's behavior pattern during emergency evacuations. However, the emotion contagion is not only at the individual level, but also at the contagion in groups. Psychological researches show that the third-party authority also has an impact on emotion contagion. For example, security guards can guide individuals to find exits and calms them; and teachers can lead their students safely evacuate from multi-layer teaching buildings, etc. In this paper, we propose a unified framework to simulate the emergency evacuations in virtual environment. This framework considers four kinds of agents: third-party authority agents, group leaders, members and isolated agents. Firstly, we randomly assign each agent a specific personality and initialize its emotion. Secondly, the emotion contagion in this paper is considered with three aspects: intra-group contagion, inter-group contagion and third-party authority based emotion contagion. We simulate inter-group aggregated behaviors by improving the ASCRIBE and provide a threshold model to simulate inter-group switching behaviors. The third-party authorities exhibit a calm effect on the agents during an evacuation, and we set their negative emotion very low and keep unchanged. Meanwhile, we perform high-level path planning to explore the environments and obtain a cognitive map for navigation purposes. Through quantitative and qualitative experiments, simulation results demonstrate that our Multimed Tools Appl https://doi.org/10.1007/s11042-018-6069-3 Electronic supplementary material The online version of this article (https://doi.org/10.1007/s11042-018- 6069-3) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users. * Yongjian Li yongjian_li@outlook.com Yan Mao maoyy85@163.com 1 School of Economics and Management, Southwest Jiaotong University, Chengdu, China 2 College of Movie and Media, Sichuan Normal University, Chengdu, China 3 Visual Computing and Virtual Reality Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, Sichuan Normal University, Chengdu, China proposed model can simulate the emotion contagion in groups during emergency evacuations, and our model outperforms some existing works.
People's emergency evacuation behavior is heavily reliant on spatial knowledge. Different spatial cognitive ways shape spatial knowledge differently. To investigate the effect of different cognitive ways on people's wayfinding performance in an indoor fire situation. The study used a virtual reality simulation of a shopping mall envi ronment, and 128 participants were recruited for the experiment. The experiment divided the participants into six groups and placed them in two scenarios, one with and one without fire. This study also explored two other intervention behaviors to improve the participants' evacuation behaviors. The results showed that participants who used navigation had shorter walking distances and wayfinding times than those who used the You are here (YAH) map. Secondly, participants in the fire scenario walked longer distances and took longer to evacuate than those in the no-fire scenario, and they perceived successful evacuation to be more difficult. Thirdly, the inter vention behavior effectively improved the participants' evacuation behavior and increased the efficiency of the evacuation. The leader's intervention was more effective in helping participants evacuate than the range intervention in this experimental setting. The findings may advance the understanding of human evacuation behavior and provide important practical implications for people's safety and emergency preparedness in shopping malls.
A general challenge during a building emergency evacuation is guiding crowd to the best exits, given potential hazards and blockages due to high density use. Although computer simulation programs such as FDS+Evac allow researchers to evaluate various guidance policies under different circumstances, computational complexity limits their use during an actual emergency. A second limitation of such programs currently available is that they can only model certain psychological variables that affect evacuation. We suggest two innova- tions to address these difficulties. First, using macroscopic models, mathematical techniques can allow for rapid optimization of guidance that could eventually be used to provide real-time guidance during emergencies. Second, we conduct virtual reality experiments using human participants to provide confirmation of our models, and provide insights into how psychological factors not yet available in FDS+Evac will affect evacuation outcomes. Results of an initial VR experiment are presented.
- This paper studies the problem of a large group of individuals that has to get to a safety exit in the context of high-stress emergency evacuations. We model this problem as a discrete-state continuous-time game, where the players update their strategies to reach the exit within a defined time horizon, whilst avoiding undesirable situations such as congestion and being trampled. The proposed model builds on crowd dynamics in a two-strategy game theoretic context, which we extend to include aspects of crowd behavior originating in sociology and psychology, and in the analogous studies performed in immersive virtual environments. The main contribution of this paper is threefold: i) we propose a novel game formulation of the model in terms of the population distribution across three strategies, and provide a link with prospect theory; ii) we study the equilibria of the system and their stability via Lyapunov stability theory of nonlinear systems; iii) we extend the model to a multi-population setting, where each population represents the group of players at a certain distance from the exit.
A modeling technique is presented that encapsulates the behavior of a crowd that may or may not become hostile. The various parameters such a slogans shouted, grouping, density, age, occasion, leadership, etc. among many other factors can easily be estimated and submitted to the model. The model will then begin a prediction process that can be corrected as more data is obtained. A predictor corrector process is described that re-guides the prediction process. In addition, we use the Metropolis simulation algorithm with input from the Boltzman weighting factor to determine how individuals within the crowd may be influenced to follow a particular path, and cellular automata to control the sphere of influence by one individual over another. Lastly, we provide some sample output from the model to illustrate the flow of such a dynamical environment.
Effective evacuation policies in emergency situations are important to save lives. To develop such policies, simulation models based on cellular automata have been used for crowd evacuation dynamics. In most previous studies of crowd evacuations, an evacuee is represented by a 1 × 1 square. However, a rectangle (1 × 2) representation is more suitable for such models than the square representation because of evacuees' shoulder width. The rectangle representation gives two new features to evacuees' behaviors: moving sideways and turning. We study the effects of these behaviors on crowd evacuation dynamics. Hence, we constructed a cellular automaton model where evacuees whose shoulder widths are 1 × 2 try to escape from a room in an emergency situation. The simulation results showed that turning behavior can make the evacuation time shorter and there is an optimal turning rate for the crowd evacuation. Our findings contribute to the effective control of evacuees in emergency situations.
The collective behavior of human crowds often exhibits surprisingly regular patterns of movement. These patterns stem from social interactions between pedestrians such as when individuals imitate others, follow their neighbors, avoid collisions with other pedestrians, or push each other. While some of these patterns are beneficial and promote efficient collective motion, others can seriously disrupt the flow, ultimately leading to deadly crowd disasters. Understanding the dynamics of crowd movements can help urban planners manage crowd safety in dense urban areas and develop an understanding of dynamic social systems. However, the study of crowd behavior has been hindered by technical and methodological challenges. Laboratory experiments involving large crowds can be difficult to organize, and quantitative field data collected from surveillance cameras are difficult to evaluate. Nevertheless, crowd research has undergone important developments in the past few years that have led to numerous research opportunities. For example, the development of crowd monitoring based on the virtual signals emitted by pedestrians' smartphones has changed the way researchers collect and analyze live field data. In addition, the use of virtual reality, and multi-user platforms in particular, have paved the way for new types of experiments. In this review, we describe these methodological developments in detail and discuss how these novel technologies can be used to deepen our understanding of crowd behavior.
-Crowd simulation becomes one of the active research over the last three decade. Crowd simulation research is part of research about human behavior. One of research focus on crowd simulation was simulation at disaster evacuation. People who trapped in disaster usually has different behavior and abilities when evacuating. So the simulation looks more real, there are several simulations scenario used when disaster simulation like invariant speed and relation between virtual agents scenario. In this research will be used agent-based reciprocal velocity obstacle method. The agent-based method used because applying a microscopic approach. With agent-based method then each virtual agents can have different behavior and abilities. Optimal reciprocal collision avoidance(ORCA) which is the best version of Reciprocal velocity obstacle(RVO) used as virtual agents collision avoidance in crowds simulation. Experiment result demonstrates the simulation of hundreds of agents in a three evacuation scenario. Leader-follower relations on heterogeneous agents result in the possibility of collisions between agents getting bigger with the number of collisions is 7781 collisions. The longest simulation time is 151 seconds with the smallest FPS number is 33 FPS.
- We seek to develop robots capable of helping people evacuate. Some evacuation environments, however, may have obstacles blocking the person's path to the closest exit. This paper therefore explores the possibility of creating robots that detect and move obstacles in order to open evacuation pathways. Experiments were conducted using a simulated autonomous robot in photorealistic indoor environments. The system uses computer vision algorithms to gather information from the environment. We show that the gathered information can be used to decide whether an obstacle can or needs to be moved in order to open a new evacuation pathway. We then use simple push manipulations to successfully remove obstacles from a path. We show that the system decreases evacuation time for evacuees in simulations of indoor environments.
Humans tend to overtrust emergency robots during emergencies [12]. Here we consider how a robot's explanations influence a person's decision to follow the robot's evacuation directions when those directions differ from the movement of the crowd. The experiments were conducted in a simulated emergency environment with an emergency guide robot and animated human looking Non-Player Characters (NPC). Our results show that explanations increase the tendency to follow the robot, even if these messages are uninformative. We also perform a preliminary study investigating different explanation designs for effective interventions, demonstrating that certain types of explanations can increase or decrease evacuation time. This paper contributes to our understanding of human compliance to robot instructions and methods for examining human compliance through the use of explanations during high risk, emergency situations.
- This research explores evacuee responses to robot- guided evacuation. During the conduct of a human-robot experiment we trigger a smoke alarm on unsuspecting subjects. The robot offers to led the subjects to a distant, less familiar exit. We capture the subjects decision to follow, evacuation characteristics, and impressions of the robot over individual and group conditions and two different approaches to designing evacuation robots. We ran a total of 112 subjects across various conditions and find that, overall, 95.28% of participants followed the robot's guidance. We further show that, although the amount of time evacuees wait prior to evacuating does not differ between the conditions, the total evacuation time is less when a multi-robot approach is taken. We also present a series of preliminary results on related exploratory studies.
- Crowd evacuation simulations are a tool for analyzing and assessing the safety of occupants in buildings. Agent-based simulations provide a platform for computing individual and collective behaviors in crowds. During evacuation, it is well known that trained leaders or evacuation guides have a key role to play in saving human lives. We propose an evacuation simulation system where agents are guided by evacuation orders from authorities or where agents can acquire information from other agents in the vicinity. We considered two different situations to test the effects of evacuation guidance acquired by agents themselves during evacuations. The simulations captured typical behaviors observed in crowd evacuations. For example, the total evacuation time was reduced when most of agents followed the guidance, although the evacuation times of individual agents were different. A specific agent involved in the movements of agents moving to another place took a longer time to evacuate. The simulation appeared to capture real situations, which shows that simulations can be used to estimate evacuation situations prior to emergency evacuation drills.
This article considers animating evacuation in complex buildings by crowds who might not know the structure's connectivity, or who find routes accidentally blocked. It takes into account simulated crowd behavior under two conditions: where agents communicate building route knowledge, and where agents take different roles such as trained personnel, leaders, and followers.
Introduction: Crowd control is essential to the handling of mass-casualty incidents (MCIs). This is the task of the police at the site of the incident. For a hospital, responsibility falls on its security forces, with the police assuming an auxiliary role. Crowd control is difficult, especially when the casualties are due to riots involving clashes between rioters and police. This study uses data regarding the October 2000 riots in Nazareth to draw lessons about the deter- minants of crowd control on the scene and in hospitals. Methods: Data collected from formal debriefings were processed to identify the specifics of a MCI due to massive riots. The transport of patients to the hospital and the behavior of their families were considered.The actions taken by the Hospital Manager to control crowds on the hospital premises also were analyzed. Results: During 10 days of riots (01-10 October 2000), 160 casualties, including 10 severely wounded, were evacuated to the Nazareth Italian Hospital. The Nazareth English Hospital received 132 injured patients, including one critically wounded, nine severely wounded, 26 moderately injured, and 96 mildly injured. All victims were evacuated from the scene by private vehicles and were accompanied by numerous family members. This obstructed access to hospitals and hampered the care of the casualties in the emergency department. The hospital staff was unable to perform triage at the emergency department's entrance and to assign the wounded to immediate treatment areas or waiting areas. All of the wounded were taken by their families directly into the "immediate care" location where a great effort was made to prioritize the severely injured. In order to control the events, the hospital's managers enlisted prominent individuals within the crowds to aid with control. At one point, the mayor was enlisted to successfully achieve crowd control. Conclusions: During riots, city, community, and even makeshift leaders within a crowd can play a pivotal role in helping hospital management control crowds. It may be advisable to train medical teams and hospital management to recognize potential leaders, and gain their cooperation in such an event. To optimize such cooperation, community leaders also should be acquainted with the roles of public health agencies and emergency services systems. Pinkert M, Bloch Y, Schwartz D, Ashkenazi I, Nakhleh B, Massad B, Peres M, Bar-Dayan Y: Leadership as a component of crowd control in a hospital dealing with a mass-casualty incident: Lessons learned from the October 2000 riots in Nazareth. PrehospitalDisast Med2007;22(6):522-526.
Agent-based modeling (ABM) is a powerful tool for model complex and heterogeneous systems as pedestrian evacuation after extreme events. Several studies on Emergency Management exist in literature, but the majority of them do not consider how human behavior impacts the evacuation plan. Indeed, these can change drastically a critical scenario because are driven by emotions, knowledge and perception which are unpredicta- ble. The aim of this study is to develop an ABM of an evacuation scenario due to a blast in a public area integrated with a mathematical dynamic human behavior model. Netlogo, which is a multi-agent programmable environment, was used to build the ABM. ABMs simulate two phases: the normal phase and the agent's evacuation process after the blast. The evacuation time is the main parameter of response and it is used to evaluate the efficiency and safety of an infrastructure. Each agent has its own behavior according to a layered framework mathematical model. The first layer, thanks to an empirical statistical distribution, simulates the "agent's state" function of the role performed by the agent and his age. Then the" individual module" describes the emotional aspects using the Decision Field Theory. This ABM becomes an important tool that enables designers or policy makers to test, estimating and improving the response of infrastructures in hazardous scenario.
In recent years, vulnerable populations have become the main targets of casualties in many building fire accidents. It is of great significance to study the behavioral patterns of vulnerable populations during emergency evacuation and to design specialized strategies conducive to the evacuation of vulnerable populations to improve evacuation efficiency and reduce casualties. In this paper, simulations are carried out using AnyLogic based on a social force model to explore the impact of dedicated exits in public places on the evacuation of vulnerable populations. A model of a normal room with three exits was created in which pedestrians were divided into two categories: normal and vulnerable populations with different evacuation speeds and footprint sizes. Simulation results show that dedicating middle exits reduces evacuation time in most cases while dedicating side exits significantly increases evacuation time. Middle exits as dedicated exits can balance the evacuation speed of vulnerable and normal populations, and improve the overall evacuation efficiency of vulnerable populations. Calculating the balance analysis index OPS for building evacuation, the results show that the balance of exits is the key to the evacuation time, and the closer the OPS value is to 0 the better the evacuation balance, which leads to a shorter evacuation time. This paper illustrates the impact of dedicated exits on the evacuation of vulnerable populations. Also, it provides a basis for the need for dedicated exits in different situations by calculating OPS values. Citation: Qiao Y, Li Q, Liu Q, Wang J. 2024. A simulation study of the influence of dedicated building exits on the evacuation patterns of vulnerable populations. Emergency Management Science and Technology 4: e013 https://doi.org/10.48130/emst-0024-0013
Grouping is a common phenomenon in pedestrian crowds and plays important roles in affecting crowd behavior. Group modeling is still an open challenging problem and has not been incorporated by existing crowd simulation models. Motivated by the need of group modeling for crowd behavior simulation, this paper presents a unified and well- defined framework for modeling the structure aspect of different groups in pedestrian crowds. Both intra-group structure and inter-group relationships are considered and their effects on the crowd behavior are modeled. Based on this framework, an agent-based crowd simulation system is developed and crowd behavior simulations using two different group structures are presented. The simulation results show that the developed framework allows different group structures to be easily modeled. Besides, different group sizes, intra- group structures and inter-group relationships can have significant impacts on crowd behaviors.  2009 Elsevier B.V.
Crowd stampedes and evacuation induced by panic caused by emergences often lead to fatalities as people are crushed, injured, trampled or even dead. Such phenomena may be triggered in life-threatening situations such as fires, explosions in crowded buildings. Emergency evacuation simulation has recently attracted the interest of a rapidly increasing number of scientists. This paper presents an Agent-Based Modeling and Simulation using Repast software to construct crowd evacuations for emergency response from an area under a fire. Various types of agents and different attributes of agents are designed in contrast to traditional modeling. The attributes that govern the characteristics of the people are studied and tested by iterative simulations. Simulations are also conducted to demonstrate the effect of various parameters of agents. Some interesting results were observed such as "faster is slower" and the ignorance of available exits. At last, simulation results suggest practical ways of minimizing the harmful consequences of such events and the existence of an optimal escape strategy.
Evacuation assistants and their guiding strategies play an important role in the multi-exits pedestrian evacuation. To investigate the effects of guiding strategies on evacuation efficiency, we propose a force-driven cellular automaton model with adjustable guiding at- tractions imposed by the evacuation assistants located in the exits. In this model, each of the evacuation assistants tries to attract the pedestrians in the evacuation space towards its own exit by sending a quantifiable guiding signal, which may be adjusted according to the values of pedestrian density near the exit. The effects of guiding strategies pursuing balanced pedestrian densities are studied. It is observed that the unbalanced pedestrian distribution is mainly yielded by a snowballing effect generated from the mutual attrac- tions among the pedestrians, and can be suppressed by controlling the pedestrian densities around the exits. We also reveal an interesting fact that given a moderate target density value, the density control for the partial regions (near the exits) could yield a global effect for balancing the pedestrians in the rest of the regions and hence improve the evacuation efficiency. Our findings may contribute to give new insight into designing effective guiding strategies in the realistic evacuation process.
Small groups are a derivative of multiple social structures and relationships. Researchers have found that in natural disasters or other emergencies, people often escape as a social group. Based on this research background, we conducted an evacuation experiment to study the effect of this behavioral patterns of small groups on crowd evacuation. A total of 60 pedestrians were selected by extracting their trajectories, individual walking distances, evacuation times, and group shape. Then, we calculated and analyzed average speed and evacuation entropy. The results indicated that the presence of small groups inhibit crowd evacuation efficiency, especially when the pro portion of small groups reached 30%. However, when above 30%, this degree of inhibition showed a decreasing trend, which may be caused by the regular convergence of small group members. It was also observed that although the evacuation time slightly increased when the group percentage reached 40%, but the overall evacuation became more orderly. We also observed the side-by-side structure and triangular structure of small groups in the experiment. This study deepens our understanding of crowd evacuation dynamics, reveals more information about pedestrian behavior, and proposes effective crowd guidance strategies.
Pedestrian behavior in emergency situations is an important part of emergency management, and crowd evacuation simulation provides a low-cost and low-risk method for investigating pedestrian evacuation dynamics by describing pedestrian evacuation behavior and predicting evacuation outcomes under hypothetical situations. This study proposed a modified social force model that combines dynamic hazard and emotional contagion frameworks to investigate the effect of panic on pedestrian evacuation dynamics under heterogeneous personality trait distributions. First, the emotional contagion framework was improved, and an updated emotional model was developed considering personality characteristics. Second, the individual self-driving force in the social force model was transformed from a physical drive mode to a psychological drive mode by introducing panic factors. Lastly, new rules for the spread of panic within small groups were formulated based on the important influence of small group behavior on evacuation. The simulation results confirmed the feasibility of analyzing crowd evacuation from the perspective of social psychology, and revealed that the spread of panic was closely related to the distribution of personality characteristics, individual walking speed, exit usage, evacuation efficiency, and small groups. In addition, the model could reproduce self-organizing behavior in crowd evacuation, such as fast is slow and herd behavior. Further, the results revealed that moderate panic can help improve evacuation efficiency, whereas excessive panic can result in uneven utilization of exits. In addition, the presence of small groups in panic crowds increased the crowd evacuation time.
Pedestrian following is a common behavior, and may provide a key link between individual locomotion and crowd dynamics. Here, we present a model for following that is motivated by cognitive science and grounded in empirical data. In Experiment 1, we collected data from leader-follower pairs, and showed that a simple speed-matching model is sufficient to account for behavior. In Experiment 2, we manipulated the visual information of a virtual leader, and found that followers respond primarily to changes in visual angle. Finally, in Experiment 3, we use the speed-matching model to simulate speed coordination in small crowds of four pedestrians. The model performs as well in these small crowds as it did in the leader-follower pairs. This cognitively-inspired, empirically-grounded model can serve as a component in a larger model of crowd dynamics.
Crowd simulation models typically combine low level and high level behavior. The low level deals with reactive behavior and collision avoidance, while the high level deals with path finding and decision making. There has been a large amount of work studying collision avoidance maneuvres for humans in both virtual reality and from real data. When it comes to high level behavior, such as decision making when choosing paths, there have been many approaches to try to simulate the large variety of possible human decisions, for instance based on minimizing energy, visibility, or path length combined with terrain constraints. For long, it has been assumed that in an emergency situation, humans just follow the behavior of others. This social behavior has been observed in the real world, and thus mimicked in crowd simulation models. However there is not an accurate model yet to determine under what circumstances this behavior emerges, and to what extend. This paper focuses on studying human behavior regarding following others, during an evacuation situation without imminent danger.
- Inspired by large fatality rates due to fires in crowded areas and the increasing presence of robots in dangerous emergency situations, we have implemented a model of information propagation among evacuees. Information about the locations of exits and the relative confidence of the individual in the location of the exit disseminated through a simulated crowd of people during an evacuation modeled after The Station Nightclub fire of 2003. True believers were added to this system as individuals who refused to accept exit information from others, instead preferring to head to their own exit. This system was then tested to find what percentage of true believers most likely existed in the actual fire. Using this true believer percentage, robots were added to the environment to guide evacuees to the nearest exit. The number of people who believed a robot's instructions was varied to find what percentage of people need to trust these robots in order to exploit information propagation and thus increase survivability. As a lower bound, we have found that 30% of the evacuees should believe a robot's instructions to significantly increase survival rates.
Every year, a considerably large number of disasters occur as a result of natural events or human faults. In order to decrease the damage and casualties associated with each disaster, it is crucial to get prepared for these kind of situations. Indeed, emergency evacuation is a crucial part of this preparation. Researchers have been working on creating evacuation simulation systems over the past few decades. They are trying to model the environment, human physiology and psychology as realistic as possible to make the analysis more accurate. However, there is yet no comprehensive system which well cover the emerging situations and guarantees the avoidance of causalities, environmental and economic damage. In this paper, we propose an approach which combines a multi-agent model with fuzzy logic to smoothly and successfully handle multiple features of each individual to simulate common human and group behavior during safety egress. The developed simulation system considers situations where a crowd is blocked inside a building or a zone during a disaster. Agents capture various aspects related to humans who may be present in such a region. Each agent possesses different features to realistically simulate a human by encapsulating the psychology, sociology, mood, reaction, etc. Integrating fuzziness in the model allows for more natural capturing of human behavior during the evacuation process. Different scenarios have been tried in the conducted experiments. The outcome revealed the importance of various characteristics of the zone to be evacuated and how they could positively affect the safeness of the evacuation plans. For instance, increasing the width of an exit up to a certain limit may be very beneficial in the process based on the density of the crowd to be evacuated. Actually, the reported simulation results demonstrate the applicability and effectiveness of the proposed approach.
-It is extremely challenging to safely evacuate a crowd from massive events and buildings such as concerts and football fields. Since the panic caused by the emergency evacuation has a higher risk to human lives, careful planning and suitable measures have to take place to ensure the safety of the citizens. This paper addresses the evacuation problem by suggesting a system utilizing robotics technologies to help the evacuation process. The proposed evacuation system provides a crowd behavior simulation using an agent-based model. The simulated evacuation will be observed by an unmanned aerial vehicle which communicates with the individuals and redirects them towards less crowded exits and away from the the danger source. Finally, the proposed system performance is evaluated and the benefits of using robot aid in evacuations are presented.
Deploying an autonomous robot in an urban environment with heterogeneous sub-area is a challenging task that requires different types of navigation and map representation. In a real-world setting, spontaneous change of the environment such as sudden raining or congestion of parts of the navigation area is also a common event that must be handled. This paper presents a real-world navigation system capable of switching among multiple navigation algorithms in a novel manner in order to properly handle the workspace with different characteristics and the challenge of changing condition of the environment. The design of the system is a real-world result from deploying an actual robot in a live system with real-world user and environment.
On the basis of fundamental principles of the Vicsek model and the leader-follower model, we develop an extended evacuation model of self-propelled particles system considering movable exits, and then propose effective strategies of self-organization evacuating from an enclosed space. It is found that placing exits in the corner is an effective strategy for evacuation via simulations. Furthermore, increasing the intensity of exit sign takes only effect in some extent. In addition, multi exits will make the evacuation more slowly. In general, one corner exit is the best choice for collective evacuation. Our results provide new insights into designing a safe passage in some enclosed places, such as the cinema and conference halls.
There has been an increasing interest in the use of Virtual Reality for learning and training. The development of Virtual Reality environment makes it possible for a user to understand and observe multiple paths and emotions that an agent would observe during evacuation. This paper presents a fuzzy logic application for modeling an evacuation scenario where fuzzy parameters such as stress, panic, and anger are modeled using fuzzy logic and integrated in the virtual environment. We present a virtual environment that has a group of agents move towards their goal which is the shortest distance from their initial position. Changing the fuzzy parameters has an effect on agents' speed. This paper presents a virtual reality application for simulation of panic behavior in a library building. The results show that the application can be used for way finding in the building, evacuation simulation, and safety evaluations of the building.
-There has been considerable interest in crowd simulation and creating crowds of virtual humans that will move in a virtual environment in a believable way. This paper presents an experimental design for assessing human behavior in emergency evacuation of an aircraft among a team of players in a game set in a virtual environment. We present the sense of presence in a virtual environment as a possible way of validating human behavior and crowd simulation models. We are conducting a pilot experiment to explore crowd simulation in aircraft evacuation using Virtual Reality to achieve high levels of presence and thus could be used as a framework for validating crowd behavior simulations. We present two approaches for controlling crowd behavior. First by defining rules for computer simulated agents, second by providing controls to the users to navigate in the environment as autonomous agents and guiding other agents. Our contribution lies in our approach to combining these two approaches of behavior in order to simulate the crowd behavior in emergencies.
The simulation of human behavior with avatars and agents in virtual reality (VR) has led to an explosion of training and educational research. The use of avatars (user-controlled characters) or agents (computer-controlled characters) may influence the engagements of the user experience for emergency response, and training in emergency scenarios. Our proposed collaborative VR megacity environment offers flexibility to run multiple scenarios and evacuation drills for disaster preparedness and response. Modeling such an environment is very important because in the real-time emergencies we experience in day-to-day life, there is a need for preparation to extreme events. These emergencies could be the result of fire, smoke, gunman threat, or a bomb blast in a city block. The collaborative virtual environment (CVE) can act as a platform for training and decision making for SWAT teams, fire responders, and traffic clearance personnel. The novelty of our work lies in modeling behaviors (hostile, non-hostile, selfish, leader-following) for computer-controlled agents so that they can interact with user-controlled agents in a CVE. We have used game creation as a metaphor for creating an experimental setup to study human behavior in a megacity for emergency response, decision-making strategies, and what-if scenarios. Our proposed collaborative VR environment includes both immersive and non-immersive environments. The participant can enter the CVE setup on the cloud and participate in the emergency evacuation drill, which leads to considerable cost advantages over large-scale, real-life exercises. We present two ways for controlling crowd behavior. The first defines rules for agents, and the second provides controls to the users as avatars to navigate in the VR environment as autonomous agents. Our contribution lies in our approach to combine these two approaches of behavior to perform virtual drills for emergency response and decision making.
Grouping behaviour occurs often in crowd evacuation. On the one hand, groups are needed for efficient evacuation. On the other hand, large uncontrolled groups (herds) may cause clogging and increase panic. The mechanisms of emergence of leaders and groups in complex socio-technical systems with intelligent technical components are not well understood. This paper presents the first attempt to unveil the role of AmI technology in formation of spontaneous groups in crowd evacuation. To this end several hypotheses were formulated, which were tested by simulation experiments based on a cognitive agent model. The checking of the hypotheses was done in the context of a train station evacuation scenario. The general outcome is that in a system with scarce and uncertain information, AmI technology can be used to stimulate emergence of leaders and groups to increase the efficiency of evacuation. Furthermore, a large penetration rate of am- bient devices may be unnecessary and even not appropriate for fluent evacuation.
This paper discusses the application of robotic technologies to an evacuation assistance task. We describe how this kind of task differs from the more prevalent search and rescue efforts, and how this difference affects the approach taken in building systems focused on the evacuation phase. The paper describes the implementation and evaluation of a deployment algorithm intended to distribute audio navigational cues throughout an office building environment. A review of evacuation dynamics methods is presented and particular methods are used within the deployment algorithm in an on-line sense. We use a pedestrian simulation and a simple model of audio-evacuee interaction in order to show the effects of beacon deployment; this indicates that even a very few beacons can result in a large decrease in the mean and variance of egress distance (and time). We also advance possible uses for human motion based methods of environment evaluation more broadly for mobile robotics in general. Keywords: Assistive Disaster Response, Evacuation and Pedestrian Dynamics, Crowd Models. 1
This paper presents a novel VR (Virtual Reality) trained BDI (belief, desire, intention) software agent used to construct crowd simulations for emergency response. The BDI framework allows modeling of human behavior with a high degree of fidelity. The proposed simulation has been developed using AnyLogic software to mimic crowd evacuation from an area under a terrorist bomb attack. The attributes that govern the BDI characteristics of the agent are studied by conducting human in the loop experiments in VR using the CAVE (Cave Automatic Virtual Environ- ment). To enhance generality and interoperability of the proposed crowd simulation modeling scheme, input data models have been developed to define environment attributes. Experiments are also conducted to demonstrate the effect of various parameters on key performance indicators such as crowd evacuation rate and densities.
This paper presents a novel methodology involving a Virtual Reality (VR)-based Belief, Desire, and Intention (BDI) software agent to construct crowd simulation and demonstrates the use of the same for crowd evacuation management under terrorist bomb attacks in public areas. The proposed BDI agent framework allows modeling of human behavior with a high degree of fidelity. The realistic attributes that govern the BDI characteristics of the agent are reverse-engineered by conducting human-in-the-loop experiments in the VR-based Cave Automatic Virtual Environment (CAVE). To enhance generality and interoperability of the proposed crowd simulation modeling scheme, input data models have been developed to define environment attributes (e.g., maps, demographics, evacuation management parameters). The validity of the proposed data models are tested with two different evacuation scenarios. Finally, experiments are conducted to demonstrate the effect of various crowd evacuation management parameters on the key performance indicators in the evacuation scenario such as crowd evacuation rate and densities. The results reveal that constructed simulation can be used as an effective emergency management tool.  2008 Elsevier B.V.
Models of collective movement have been developed for both human crowds and animal herds and other aggregations but these models have not been used to test whether panicked crowds display generic features of dynamical behaviour regardless of species, and in particular whether a single model can explain panic behaviour in organisms of vastly different body size. We use a single modelling framework to examine crowd behaviour in ants and humans, which differ by 8 orders of magnitude in body mass. We assess whether simple allometric scaling of model parameter values, based only on the body mass difference, allows the model to describe the collective behaviour of the two species under panic conditions. We verified the model against experimental data from panicking Argentine ants (Linepithema humile) and then rescaled the parameter values to human body size. The predictions of rescaled model correspond to the quantitative data available for crowd panics, suggesting that the same kinds of interactions among individuals and with the physical environment govern crowd behaviour. We tested the effects of partial obstruction and the homogeneity of body sizes on the escape rate and found that appropriate selection of size and location of obstruction and homogeneity of body sizes can increase the outflow of pedestrians by more than double. Broader comparisons of crowd behaviour among species with different forms of locomotion and body size can enhance our theoretical understanding of crowd panics and potentially has applications in handling of agricultural animals as well as human public safety.  2014 Elsevier Ltd.
This paper investigates the behaviour of subgroups in crowd dynamics by means of filming and observation. An existing crowd modelling program, CrowdDMX, based on a discrete ele- ment model (DEM) has been modified on the basis of observations made in this paper and literature. Each person is represented as three overlapping circles and motion is modelled in a Newtonian manner. It incorporates psychological forces as well as physical forces in a 2D time-stepping environment. The DEM model was modified to include realistic subgroup behaviour, representing people in the crowd desiring to stay together (families, friends, etc.). Subgroup psychological forces were incorporated. The previous model only simulated individuals moving independently, which was unrealistic in some situations as shown by the observation and filming part of the study. The revised program models subgroups realistically including the tendency to avoid subgroup division in cases of contra-flow.  2009 Elsevier Inc.
Cellular Automata (CA) as bio-inspired parallel computational models of self-reproducing organisms can capture the essential features of systems where global behavior arises from the collective effect of simple components which interact locally. In this aspect, CAs have been considered as a fine candidate to model pedestrian behavior and crowd dynamics in a fine manner. In specific, for crowd modeling, the CA models show evidence of a macroscopic nature with microscopic extensions, i.e. they provide adequate details in the description of human behavior and interaction, whilst they retain the computational cost at low levels. In this paper several CA models for crowd evacuation taking into consideration different modeling principles, like potential fields techniques, obstacle avoidance, follow-the-leader principles, grouping theory, etc. will be presented in an attempt to accomplish efficient crowd evacuation simulation. Moreover, an integrated system based on CAs that operates as an anticipative crowd management tool in cases of medium density crowd evacuation for indoor and outdoor environments is also shown, and its results different real world cases and different environments prove its efficiency. Finally, robot guided evacuation with the help of CAs is also presented. Quite recently, an evacuation system was proposed, based on an accurate CA model capable of assessing the human behavior during emergency situations takes advantage of the simulation output to provide sufficient information to a mobile robotic guide, which in turn guides people towards a less congestive exit at a time.
During last decades, Cellular Automata (CAs) as bio-inspired parallel computational tools have been proven rather efficient and robust on modeling and simulating many different physical processes and systems and solving scientific problems, in which global behavior arises from the collective effect of simple components that interact locally. Among others of most renowned and well established CA applications, crowd evacuation and pedestrian dynamics are considered ones of the most timely and lively topics. Numerous models and computational paradigms of CAs either as standalone models or coupled with other theoretical and practical modeling approaches have been introduced in literature. All these crowd models are taking advantage of the fact that CA show evidence of a macroscopic nature with microscopic extensions, i.e. they provide adequate details in the description of human behavior and interaction, whilst they retain the computational cost at low levels. In this aspect, several CA models for crowd evacuation focusing on different modeling principles, like potential fields techniques, obstacle avoidance, follow the leader principles, grouping and queuing theory, long memory effects, etc. are presented in this paper. Moreover, having in mind the inherent parallelism of CA and their straightforward implementation in hardware, some anticipative crowd management systems based on CAs are also shown when operating on medium density crowd evacuation for indoor and outdoor environments. Real world cases and different environments were examined proving the efficiency of the proposed CA based anticipative systems. The proposed hardware implementation of the CAs-based crowd simulation models is advantageous in terms of low-cost, high-speed, compactness and portability features. Finally, robot guided evacuation with the help of CAs is also presented. The proposed framework relies on the well established CAs simulation models, while it employs a real-world evacuation implementation assisted by a mobile robotic guide, which in turn guides people towards a less congestive exit at a time.
The following (or) queuing behaviour of pedestrians, wherein people walk one after the other in a line is a common occurrence in pedestrian facilities or crowd gatherings. Though many studies have explored this behaviour, especially using single-file experiments, this behaviour cannot be treated in isolation from other walking behaviours like overtaking or lane-changing. Also, the contemporary models assume that the person ahead is the leader by all the pedestrians. In the real-world, however, the follower may not consider their predecessor as a leader and modulate their movements according to the leader dynamics. Yet, most pedestrian models are deterministic and do not incorporate uncertainty and fluctuations of perception and behaviour. The proposed following model is nondeterministic and data-driven We propose a methodology to model the pedestrian walking dynamics in a unidirectional single channel flow by jointly modelling the aspect of probabilistic consideration of leader, lane changing, and following behaviour. The proposed behavioural model is calibrated using field data of pilgrim's movement in a narrow corridor in Kumbh Mela, a mass religious gathering in India. It is noted that the probability of lane change is directly proportional to the adjacent lane spacing and inversely proportional to the current lane spacing. The threshold spacing, within which the chances of the following pedestrian to consider the pedestrian ahead as a leader is obtained to be 1.2 m for the final model. An agent-based model is developed based on the calibrated behavioural model and several scenarios such as speed variations, gender influences, and flow variations are tested. It was observed that when few pedestrians stop in between for a while, the average speeds reduced from 1 m/s to 0.57 m/s and the probability of following pedestrians doing lane change increased. Also, the variation in spacing is observed to have more spread when the agents move slowly. The proposed agent-based microsimulation model can be used by the event managers by allowing them to test various possible scenarios during the event-preparation phase of crowd management.
This paper studies the impact of guidance on evacuation processes. A Cellular Automata (CA) based model has been, therefore, elaborated in order to introduce group categorization and guidance attributes. The crowd is categorized according to motional skills and a special group is assigned leadership features. The presented scenario includes the evacuation of a retirement house with the help of the nursing staff. Simulation results prove the significance of proper guidance. The latter optimizes the response of the model by activating alternative routes that decrease congestion levels in front of exits.
Human evacuation during an emergency in high-rise buildings is a life-risking task and has to be performed in the least possible time. With the advancements in robotics, deploying autonomous robots in those situations could ease human efforts in evacuation processes but pose challenges in finding the optimal path to guide the people toward the exits. This paper proposes a novel path planning for the autonomous mobile robot to lead evacuees to the nearest staircase exits. The proposed algorithm is modeled by the moving-target TSP (Traveling Salesman Problem) concept for humans who need to be evacuated and uses the Genetic algorithm optimization framework to generate the optimal path in consideration of muti- staircases as exits. We evaluated the performance of the proposed algorithm by benchmarking it with traditional algorithms in a simulated environment. Also, we conducted controlled real-time experiments to validate the proposed method with the conventional methods. In both cases, the proposed algorithm demonstrated significantly better with the gain of 22.4% than other algorithms regarding distance traveled by the robot.
The egress literature abounds with studies and models of emergency pedestrian evacuation behavior. Each model tries to incorporate more details and features of the crowd movement dynamics to improve its accuracy. This paper combines a relatively simple pedestrian motion model with a position dependent Voter model to study the effects of opinion sharing on crowd evacuation characteristics. Effect of the presence of leaders on the final outcome of the evacuation is studied in detail. An analytical solution for a simplified version of the egress dynamics with opinion exchange is presented, followed by a set of numerical simulations. Interesting findings about the effect of the strength of interaction between individuals, number and distribution of leaders and initial bias of the evacuees on the final distribution of evacuees over available exits, mean number of steps to evacuate, etc. are presented.
Several factors like herding amongst evacuees, individual's impatience with crowded pathways, individual's familiarity with the building, and presence of credible leaders play a critical role in an emergency evacuation situation. A thorough understanding of how these factors interplay in a given building structure can lead to increased safety through appropriate evacuation planning. Past works have concentrated their efforts on developing an accurate movement model or an accurate decision theoretic model to study emergency evacuation. This work involves a unified modeling of individuals' movement along with a personalized decision mechanism. Further, to account for herding in the crowd explicitly, a spatially-bounded opinion sharing framework is incorporated. Utilizing this unified model, the interplay of several factors like knowledge about the available exits and presence of leaders with preferred route choice on the evacuation time were investigated in detail. For the given building geometry, we discovered that a crowd consisting of patient individuals with few appropriately informed leaders was able to evacuate the building quicker. Using this unified model, effects of these factors on other building structures can be studied, and it can help with improving the overall safety of the evacuees.
Predicting evacuation patterns is useful in emergency management situations such as an earthquake. To find out how pre-trained individuals interact with one another to achieve their own goal to reach the exit as fast as possible firstly, we investigated urban people's evacuation behavior under earthquake disaster coditions, established crowd response rules in emergencies, and described the drill strategy and exit familiarity quantitatively through a cellular automata model. By setting different exit familiarity ratios, simulation experiments under different strategies were conducted to predict people's reactions before an emergency. The corresponding simulation results indicated that the evacuees' training level could affect a multi-exit zone's evacuation pattern and clearance time. Their exit choice preferences may disrupt the exit options' balance, leading to congestion in some of the exits. Secondly, due to people's rejection of long distances, congestion, and unfamiliar exits, some people would hesitant about the evacuation direction during the evacuation process. This hesitation would also significantly reduce the overall evacuation efficiency. Finally, taking a community in Zhuhai City, China, as an example, put forward the best urban evacuation drill strategy. The quantitative relation between exit familiar level and evacuation efficiency was obtained. The final results showed that the optimized evacuation plan could improve evacuation's overall efficiency through the self-organization effect. These studies may have some impact on predicting crowd behavior during evacuation and designing the evacuation plan.
Purpose - In mass gatherings, a large number of people gather at a single location. To ensure safety of these people, adequate crowd management strategies are essential. Specifically, in case of an emergency, efficient evacuation can save the lives of many people. This paper aims to develop various control strategies for efficient evacuation, including providing information of routes, changing the physical layout and controlling the behavior of evacuees. Design/methodology/approach - Mathematical models have been developed for optimal decision- making and analysis of the effect of these control strategies during evacuation. A global search with Sequential Quadratic programming is used to increase the likelihood of obtaining the optimal solution to these models. Further, an illustrative evacuation example is presented to test the efficacy of the models. Findings - The results of the illustrative example demonstrate that the models and their corresponding strategies can bring significant benefits for efficient evacuation. Practical implications - The models developed can play a significant role in helping the security staff execute evacuation better at an operational level. The authors' models can also have implications at the strategic level for the crowd manager. Social implications - Efficient strategies and optimal decision-making during evacuation can save lives of people. These models can develop efficient strategies that can save lives of people. Originality/value - This paper fulfills need to study the effect of various control strategies on evacuation efficiency for a large area and its complete network.
-A large number of injuries or deaths may occur when an emergency happens in a crowded public place. The congestion at exits may slow down the egress rate due to the effect of "faster-is-slower". This inspires us to study how human behavior dynamically changes over time at an emergency in a complex indoor environment. In this paper, we refer the panic of evacuees to their perception of the threat and propose a panic propagation model to model how crowd panic changes during evacuation at an emergency. Combined with the existing social force model, our panic model interprets the self-driven force and interactive forces with others in human mobility. To improve evacuation efficiency, robots are introduced to guide evacuees to escape. Using dynamic environment information, we design an evacuation exit selection algorithm where the optimal exit is automatically selected by the robot with the minimum escape time. In our experiments, a real shopping mall is examined, and the dynamic behavior of panicked evacuees is simulated with the proposed panic model. The evacuation performance of using emergency evacuation robots is evaluated. The improvement of evacuation efficiency validates the effectiveness of our robot-assisted evacuation system.
-In emergencies, negative emotion has a significant impact on decision-making during crowd evacuation. Psycho- logical studies suggest that negative emotion in decision-making has a double-edged sword effect. Excessive negative emotion has adverse impacts, such as causing crowd chaos and congestion. Conversely, moderate negative emotion has a positive effect by speeding up crowd movement. However, current researches mainly focus on one aspect which is how to reduce the negative effects of negative emotion on crowd evacuation, while over- looking the benefits of negative emotion. How to fully explore the double-edged sword effect of negative emotion and regulate negative emotion to improve the efficiency of crowd evacuation is still an open issue. To achieve this, we propose the NegEmotion model which considers the positive impact of negative emotion on crowd evacuation, and regulates crowd emotion by controlling knowledge spreading according to Siminov's psychological principle. In this model, the knowledge spreading network (KSN) and the stress emotional contagion network (SECN) are constructed. Based on these networks, we study the evolution process of knowledge spreading and stress emotional contagion, respectively. Next, we formulate the emotional regulation as an optimization problem to maximize the efficiency of crowd evacuation. Then, a heuristic algorithm is used to solve for the optimal emotional regulation strategy. Finally, a crowd simulation system is implemented to verify the effectiveness of our NegEmotion model. The experimental results show that our method is effective to improve the efficiency of crowd evacuation.
- An MILP-in-MPC algorithm is presented for solving crowd evacuation problems. Crowd evacuation discussed in this paper is simplified as a task to transfer a crowd of followers from their initial states to a target set of states by controlling a set of leader agents while satisfying some constraints. Within minimum time, a solution which the outside controller only gives order to the leaders is proposed. The algorithm works by separating leaders which are fire-fighters in our case and followers which are the crowd into two systems. The leaders form a system which the followers take control input while the followers form a system which impose crowd constraints on the system. Model Pre- dictive Control framework is applied to manage feedback property of the problem, taking both dynamic obstacle constraints and stochastic behavior of followers into account. For time-minimizing trajectory optimization with collision avoidance within a finite horizon, Mixed- Integer Linear Programming method is used. The results show that the MILP-in-MPC algorithm can naturally solve logical constraints and integrate both open-loop and closed-loop property of this problem. Robust control is generated for crowd evacuation applications, which successfully controls the followers within the safe range created by the leaders throughout time period of evacuation.
The Internet of Things based Smart Sensing and Alarm System with Autonomous Guiding Robots for Efficient Fire Emergency Evacuation System was designed and developed to provide immediate monitoring and alerts, allowing for efficient emergency evacuation with robotic assistance. The project includes two types of robots: a robot guide and a robot transporter. The NodeMCU-controlled Vex Navigating Robot directs people to the closest and most appropriate safety exits, while the Remote-Controlled Arduino-based Robot Transporter shuttles restrained or elderly people. The system employs an Internet of Things- based microcontroller to read and process data from sensors that detect temperature, humidity, and the number of people present in each room. This data is sent to the Cloud server and shown in the Blynk Mobile App. When a fire occurs, an alert signal using GSM and GPS technologies is sent to the fire station, the building health and safety team, and the autonomous guiding robot that replaces the Fire Warden, informing them of the incident's location and possible casualties. In this system, the robot system plays an important role in the evacuation process, assisting in the avoidance of delays and the saving of lives. The Autonomous navigating Robot was tested in a Floor plan layout with 9 rooms. The sensing unit was fixed in all rooms and the Robot in front of BS109 is tested with 3 different sources of fire, one in BS108, BS103 and BS 110. The robot successfully chose the appropriate exit path of path2 when the source of fire is in BS103 and BS110 and path1 when source of Fire is BS108. Testing of the algorithm is done with robot in front of Bs104, BS109, BS110 with 3 different source of fire. Transporting Robot is tested with remote controlled unit and is found to successfully transport people up to the weight of 80kgs with less than 2% deviation from its destined angle of travel.
-During mass evacuations, many psychological and physical factors are responsible for stampedes and other life threatening situations. Quantitative and qualitative analyses of these factors are of high importance while devising optimal strategies for evacuations. In this paper, we present an agent- based model that considers psychological and physical factors that cause panic in such situations. We have also simulated some simple evacuation scenarios and presented a method to identify possible bottlenecks and shortcomings in the environments during emergency evacuations. Our method also helps in evaluation and analysis of different evacuation strategies. To enable this analysis, we have used a rule-based roadmap approach, where critical nodes in the environment are identified by the evacuation planner and each node has a special rule according to the strategy of the planner. We evaluate different strategies on parameters, such as evacuation time and physical discomfort caused to the agents.
This work investigates the impact of interactions among individuals and their environment during evacuations in a University Building. The proposed CA-based model aims at simplifying the simulation process and at accomplishing successful modeling of evacuation processes of moderate density. Thus, the model is effectively parameterised by incorporating variable speeds, acceleration, massive physical pressure onto individuals, adoption and efficient location of leading persons. Remarkable features that characterise crowd evacuation are prominent; transition from uncoordinated to coordinated movement due to common purpose, arching in front of exits, herding behavior. Finally, the validation of the model includes further qualitative and quantitative analysis, which is based on the comparison of the flow-density and speed-density response of the model with corresponding literature derived distributions.
SUMMARY Many models have been developed in recent years to describe pedestrian group behavior. Most prior research on group behavior focuses mainly on small groups and does not provide a general approach for grouping pedestrians with respect to different group sizes. They also analyze pedestrian group dynamics in normal circumstances. However, people's reactions who are aware of an emergency are not the same as how they respond to normal or usual situations. The central focus of this paper is to study pedestrian group behavior during evacuation. To accomplish these objectives, a new model is proposed with some extensions of a social force model in its emergency context. The new extensions are intended to simulate the single leader-centered and group-centered crowd behavior in emergencies. Besides small pedestrian groups, larger ones are also considered, and extensions are added in this direction. The model is calibrated using the results of an existing experimental study. Then, the model is verified by testing for the occurrence of certain emergent patterns. The results indicate that the proposed model can capture these trends. Additionally, the model is validated by comparing the simulation results with experimental results available in the literature. Also, several different evacuation scenarios are used to evaluate the proposed model. The simulation results show that leader-centered behavior performs better than group-centered behavior with respect to the evacuation time for small groups. The number of leaders also affects the evacuation time. Moreover, an increase in the number of leaders positively influences the effect of the width of the door on evacuation time, but the size of this effect depends on the number of leaders. Finally, group-centered behavior results in less evacuation time than leader-centered behavior in the presence of multiple exits, and leader-centered (also called single leader-centered in this study) behavior causes a more unbalanced use of the exits than group-centered behavior.
By treating human relationships as networks, disaster response planners can capture the features of cooperative behaviors between residents, providing valuable insights for effective evacuation planning. In this paper, the writers outline residents' evacuation behaviors during the 2011 Great East Japan earthquake and the resulting nuclear disaster and tsunami. An analysis of these evacuation behaviors shows the significance of cooperation between residents and of problems caused by two types of bias: normalcy and majority syncing. Next, the writers describe how residents' cooperation behaviors accumulate to form cooperation networks and apply the fitness model to the formation of these networks. A case study of network formation in response to a mudslide disaster in the city of Niihama in 2004 is provided. The writers estimate the fitness parameters and analyze the network formation process and structure on the basis of the distribution of the fitness parameters and show the scale-free characteristics of the evacuation phase of this disaster. Disaster response planning can take into consideration the scale-free networks that form around central and bridging players and acknowledge the importance of the role of cooperation behaviors in disasters. Leadership and Management in Engineering OCTOBER 2012 231 Leadership Manage. Eng. 2012.12:231-246. Downloaded from ascelibrary.org by New York University on 05/12/15. Copyright ASCE. For personal use only;
This paper presents a microscopic analysis of factors influencing pedestrian movement and interactions with their surroundings for two considered modes: independent movement influenced only by the surrounding conditions and synchronized movement based on following another pedestrian. This study analyses which of these effects prevail in different phases of the movement. The results show that the significant value of correlation between pedestrian velocity and corresponding individual density is observed mainly during approaching the crowd. Contrarily, in the segment of pedestrian trajectory which corresponds to movement inside the crowd, correlation between the velocity of a follower and a leader is more important. This confirms that the pedestrian behaviour in a crowd is a complex field.
- Agent based simulation is a widely developing area in artificial intelligence. The simulation studies are extensively used in different areas of disaster management. This work deals with the study of an agent based evacuation simulation which is being done to handle the various evacuation behaviors. Various emergent behaviors of agents are addressed here. Dynamic grouping behaviors of agents are studied. Collision detection and obstacle avoidances are also incorporated in this approach. Evacuation is studied with single exits and multiple exits and efficiency is measured in terms of evacuation rate, collision rate etc.Net logo is the tool used which helps in the efficient modeling of scenarios in evacuation.
Our aim is to understand systemic processes that apply to hospital evacuation and patient relocation during and after a disaster. We use system dynamics to simulate hospital evacuation in such an event. System dynamics is a well-established simulation method for analysing complex social systems that include feedback. We found that the key to efficient hospital evacuation lies less in management of patient transportation and more in the ability of the receiving hospital to manage the influx of patients. The decision makers at the hospital receiving patients are most subject to feedback effects and therefore hold the most leverage in determining the rate of the evacuation. On the basis of simulation results, we develop recommendations for hospital evacuation and patient relocation. Planners, policy makers and practitioners can use the recommendations to facilitate efficient hospital evacuations.
This chapter considers the use of emergency evacuation robots, how these systems can be effectively evaluated and ethically deployed. A set of ethical principles governing the development and use of emergency evacuation robots is presented. The chapter concludes with a discussion of how evacuation robots might be deployed in practice.
-Pedestrian regulation can prevent crowd accidents and improve crowd safety in densely populated areas. Recent studies use mobile robots to regulate pedestrian flows for desired collective motion through the effect of passive human-robot interaction (HRI). This paper formulates a robot motion planning problem for the optimization of two merging pedestrian flows moving through a bottleneck exit. To address the challenge of feature representation of complex human motion dynamics under the effect of HRI, we propose using a deep neural network to model the mapping from the image input of pedestrian environments to the output of robot motion decisions. The robot motion planner is trained end-to-end using a deep reinforcement learning algorithm, which avoids hand-crafted feature detection and extraction, thus improving the learning capability for complex dynamic problems. Our proposed approach is validated in simulated experiments, and its performance is evaluated. The results demonstrate that the robot is able to find optimal motion decisions that maximize the pedestrian outflow in different flow conditions, and the pedestrian-accumulated outflow increases significantly compared to cases without robot regulation and with random robot motion.
-This paper mainly focuses on the effects of the range of visibility, the number and position of leaders and the speeds of ordinary people and leaders on evacuation efficiency in public places. This paper adds the limits of visibility range and the attractiveness of leaders to ordinary people in the basic cell evacuation model, which helps us to study the leadership role played by leaders in the low-visibility environment. In the simulation model, only the ordinary people near exits and leaders who are familiar with the environment can evacuate correctly while other individuals can only evacuate within the visibility range. The simulation results show that the model can effectively simulate the crowd evacuation of the single-exit room in low- visibility conditions. The leaders and ordinary people who can see the exit will choose the nearest exit to evacuate. Other ordinary people will follow leaders or most individuals within the visibility range for evacuation. Too low visibility range will increase the evacuation time of the crowd, and reasonably setting the number, initial positions and speeds of leaders can improve evacuation efficiency.
Article history: Received 31 August 2018 Received in revised form 13 November 2018 Accepted 11 December 2018 Available online xxxx Communicated by F. Porcelli Keywords: Pedestrian evacuation Evacuation strategy Visibility Social force model Evacuation process under limited visibility is different from that under good visibility. To investigate the evacuation efficiency under limited visibility, different evacuation strategies including walking along the wall (S1), following the average movement direction (S2) and following the average position (S3) are proposed in this paper. Performances of these strategies under different visibilities, densities and exit widths are compared based on a revised social force model. Simulation results show that strategy S1 is more effective at low densities while strategy S2 and S3 are more efficient at high densities. It is noted that strategy S2 outperforms S3 under the same condition. In addition, strategy S1 is not sensitive to the change of exit width due to the movement mode of walking along the wall, while the following strategies (S2 and S3) have a better performance under the wide exit condition. The evacuation time for different proportions of pedestrians adopting one strategy in the mixed strategy situation is investigated and the optimal mixture proportion is also discussed. This study provides a new insight into the effect of different evacuation strategies on pedestrian evacuation, which is helpful for evacuees or organizers of public events to make an efficient evacuation plan under limited visibility.
The present research presents an extended evacuation field model for simulating crowd emergency evacuation processes under the control of evacuation assistants. Furthermore, a communication field for describing the escape information transmission process and its effect on evacuees is introduced. The effective locations and optimal numbers of evacuation assistants as generated through the model are proposed in an effort to verify as well as enhance existing models. Results show the following. (1) Locating evacuation assistants near exits reduces the time delay for pre-evacuation. (2) There is an optimal number of evacuation assistants for achieving evacuation efficiency; having excessive numbers of evacuation assistants does not improve the evacuation efficiency, and they may result in evacuation time delay and hinder the evacuation efficiency. (3) As the number of evacuees increases, the number of evacuation assistants needed decreases.
Evacuation assistants are expected to lead evacuees to safety effectively and efficiently. An extended dynamic communication field model is proposed, and presents the transmission and function process of escape information when an evacuation assistant is moving as well as leading evacuees to the exit. Based on the model and multiple simulation experiments, this paper vividly depicts an emergency evacuation process when influence by the centripetal effect of an evacuation assistant. Results show the following: evacuation assistants clearly exhibit a centripetal effect and lead role, as recognized by evacuees; evacuation efficiency has a linear relationship with the number of evacuees that an evacuation assistant can lead; when an evacuation assistant leads more evacuees, evacuation efficiency is higher; an evacuation assistant's efficiency is directly related to his initial position and speed; evacuation assistants should move slower than evacuees; efficiency is strongly correlated with an assistant's initial distance from a designated exit, the optimal value for which is provided.  2014 Elsevier Ltd.
Casualties during crowd evacuation in many unexpected events are closely related to panic behaviors. In this paper the evacuation crowd system is abstracted into a dynamic complex network composed of three types of people, namely calm people, panic people, and herding people, as well as their interactions. The mathematical model of these interactions is established based on complex network theory. Further, the evolution of herding people to panic people is interpreted by a specific concept of ''herding-panic threshold,'' as well as its utility threshold model, in which the own characteristics of herding people and the external pressure from the surrounding crowd are comprehensively considered. To verify the rationality of some assumption in the utility threshold model, a questionnaire survey about the evacuation psychological behaviors is carried out. Through theoretical analysis and simulation, the influence of some key parameters on the herding-panic behavior is discussed in detail, via analyzing the change of panic rate. Some safety measures to control herding-panic in evacuation are also suggested.
This paper presents a cellular simulation model for pedestrian emergency evacuation, which takes into account social factors such as individual vision, environmental familiarity, communication and conduction, and velocity adjustment. Variables are introduced to describe the relationship between the evacuees and their environment, as well as the interaction with each other. RESTful CD++ has been used as a middle- ware to run simulations remotely. The results obtained confirm the role of social interactions in emergency evacuation. This work, on the one hand, shows the advantages and advancement of model-driven theory and DEVS formalism to address social science issues; on the other hand, it helps to better integrate evacuation planning and public safety management in the design of urban architectures.
Emergency evacuation after the earthquake is a vital means to prevent and reduce casualties, and has important practical significance. "Grouping behavior" is relatively common in crowd evacuation. That is, the evacuees must gather together with close-knit individuals before conducting collective evacuation. Therefore, by researching the herd behavior in the evacuated population after combining the ideas of firefly algorithm, the improved social force model by fusing relationship grouping and herd behavior are proposed, which is used to simulate the flow of people. The results show that the model can simulate the group phenomenon in the crowd evacuation more accurately. Moreover, it is found that the total evacuation time of the population is longer significantly with the augment of small-scale herd in the crowd. Thus the study provides a theoretical basis for large-scale population evacuation.
The combination of multi-agent technology and reinforcement learning methods has been recognized as an effective way which is used in path planning-based crowd simulation. However, the existing solution is still not satisfactory due to the problem in the mutual influence of agents. Therefore, an improved multi-agent reinforcement learning method (IMARL algorithm) is introduced. In this method, the intersec- tion of the pedestrian trajectory extracted from the real video is first used as the state space for reinforcement learning. The crowd is grouped and the leader is selected. A bulletin board is added to the reinforcement learning algorithm of multi-agent to store the empirical knowledge of the learning process, and the navigation agent passes information between the leader and the bulletin board. The original social force model was improved, and the cohesive force of visual factors was added to the force formula. The IMARL algorithm is combined with the improved social force model for crowd evacuation simulation. Using a two-layer control mechanism, the leader in the upper layer uses the decision process based on the IMARL algorithm to select the path, and the individuals in the bottom group use the improved social force model to evacuate. The method of this paper not only solves the dimensionality disaster problem of reinforcement learning but also improves the convergence speed. The evacuation efficiency is effectively improved in crowd evacuation simulation experiments. In addition, it can also provide specific guidance scheme for crowd evacuation improvement and assistant decision support for the prevention and management of large-scale group trampling incidents.
In this paper, we study the leadership effect in crowd evacuation by simulation based on modified social force model. Three evacuation strategies are compared. (1) When there is no leader in the neighborhood, the evacuation success rate is no more than 30%. We conducted a comparative analysis of pedestrian movement with and without herd effect behavior, and found that adopting the "herd" evacuation strategy has a slightly better evacuation success rate than each pedestrian alone looking for an exit. (2) When there is a leader nearby, the movement characteristics and evacuation behavior of the crowd under different visual field conditions (0-2.5m) are studied, and the effect of the number of leaders on evacuation effect is analyzed. The larger the number of leaders, the higher the evacuation success rate. However, when the number of leaders is larger than a certain value, the effect of an increase in the number of leaders on evacuation effect is not obvious. (3) The situation where pedestrians follow the leader with a certain probability is studied. It showed that the greater the probability coefficient, the easier it is for the crowd to trust and follow the leader.
The guidance strategy for a single rescuer plays a vital role in evacuation management which has yet to be thoroughly studied. Hence, one factor of panic evacuation involving the guidance of a single rescuer is investigated by an extended cellular automaton (CA) model in this paper. The effects of the global panic factor, the hazard position and the environmental familiarity on pedestrians' evacuation under different guidance strategies are discussed. The analysis of simulation results demonstrates that the panic makes a great impact on the pedestrians' evacuation process and their sensitivity to hazards increases consequently. When pedestrians' panic degree is relatively high, a wall-following searching (WFS) strategy should be adopted by a rescuer, otherwise an area coverage searching (ACS) strategy is a good choice. In addition, the position of the hazard hitting in the room significantly affects the pedestrians' panic evacuation process. When the hazard position is closer to the exit, the evacuation time lengthens without a rescuer present. Both ACS strategy and WFS strategy are helpful to increase the evacuation efficiency wherever the hazard is located, and WFS strategy works better. Furthermore, the pedestrians' environmental familiarity has a greater impact on their evacuation process. The better the environmental familiarity, the faster the pedestrian flow rate is. In the early stage of evacuation, the pedestrian flow rate is higher under the ACS strategy, while in the later period, the rate is higher under WFS strategy. For the entire stage of the evacuation, WFS strategy is always more useful than ACS strategy whether evacuees are familiar with the room or not. The study contributes to understanding the importance of the guidance strategy in pedestrians' evacuation and to developing an efficient evacuation strategy for evacuation management.
-A Grid simulation infrastructure can facilitate a simulation comprising models of different grains and/or models of various types in nature to investigate large and complicated problems. On top of the infrastructure, a simulation of evacuating thousands of pedestrians in a large urban area has been constructed. A number of agent-based and computational models residing at two administrative domains operate together, which successfully presents the dynamics of the complex scenario at scales of both individual and crowd levels. Experimental results indicate that the proposed approach can effectively cope with the size and complexity of a scenario involving a large crowd.
An evacuation plan helps people move away from an area or a building. To assist rapid evacuation, we present an algorithm to compute the optimal route for each local region. The idea is to reduce congestion and maximize the number of evacuees arriving at exits in each time span. Our system considers crowd distribution, exit locations, and corridor widths when determining optimal routes. It also simulates crowd movements during route optimization. As a basis, we expect that neighboring crowds who take different evacuation routes should arrive at respective exits at nearly the same time. If this is not the case, our system updates the routes of the slower crowds. As crowd simulation is non-linear, the optimal route is computed in an iterative manner. The system repeats until an optimal state is achieved. In addition to directly computing optimal routes for a situation, our system allows the structure of the situation to be decomposed, and determines the routes in a hierarchical manner. This strategy not only reduces the computational cost but also enables crowds in different regions to evacuate with different priorities. Experimental results, with visualizations, demonstrate the feasibility of our evacuation route optimization method.
The aim of this study is to evaluate the reliability of a crowd simulation model developed by the authors by reproducing Dyer et al.'s experiments (published in Philosophical Transactions in 2009) on human leadership and consensus decision making in a computer-based environment. The theoretical crowd model of the simulation environment is presented, and its results are compared and analysed against Dyer et al.'s original experiments. It is concluded that the simulation results are largely consistent with the experiments, which demonstrates the reliability of the crowd model. Furthermore, the simulation data also reveals several additional new findings, namely: 1) the phenomena of sacrificing accuracy to reach a quicker consensus decision found in ants colonies was also discovered in the simulation; 2) the ability of reaching consensus in groups has a direct impact on the time and accuracy of arriving at the target position; 3) the positions of the informed individuals or leaders in the crowd could have significant impact on the overall crowd movement; and 4) the simulation also confirmed Dyer et al.'s anecdotal evidence of the proportion of the leadership in large crowds and its effect on crowd movement. The potential applications of these findings are highlighted in the final discussion of this paper. Citation: Wu S, Sun Q (2014) Computer Simulation of Leadership, Consensus Decision Making and Collective Behaviour in Humans. PLoS ONE 9(1): e80680. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0080680 Editor: Attila Gursoy, Koc University, Turkey Received November 1, 2012; Accepted October 14, 2013; Published January 17, 2014 Copyright:  2014 Wu, Sun. This is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the
The role of the leader in the self-organizing crowd has a significant influence on the crowd evacuation when an emergency occurs. However, current crowd evacuation models either ignore the leadership characteristics of pedestrians or predefine an invariable leader identity. This article clearly distinguishes leaders from followers in a crowd and evaluates the impact of the leader's role on crowd evacuation under dynamic situations. First, the leadership model of the pedestrian is built based on the classic OCEAN personality parameters. Social dominance tendency is measured for more credibility. Then, the dynamic leader role model (DLRM) is proposed to describe the relationship between leaders and followers, considering the interaction among pedestrians during the evacuation. Finally, a novel crowd simulation algorithm based on the above DLRM is presented using the extended social force model. Various experiments in several typical scenarios verified that our proposed simulation model has better realism. K E Y W O R D S crowd simulation, dynamic leader role model, leader-follower relationship, OCEAN, social force model
- Due to the universal existence of human subgroups in reality, an increasing number of studies have incorporated them into the modeling process of crowd evacuation. However, such models seldom explain subgroup behaviors from the aspect of what individuals see and how they respond to visual input. Here, we propose a vision-driven model based on cognitive heuristics, in which the mechanisms of avoidance with the environment and attraction to other members within the field of view are explicitly clarified. Numerical simulations demonstrate that various spatial characteristics of subgroup members can be effectively represented by this model, and both the intensity and heterogeneity of spatial cohesion have significant impacts on subgroup evacuation. By comparing with an empirical study, the reproducibility of our model has been validated in terms of the temporal and spatial dimensions. This model produces more natural and realistic subgroup behaviors in multiple interaction contexts than existing models, and also quantitatively exhibits the superiority in reproduction effects. Overall, this work provides an interpretable mathematical framework for modeling subgroups from the perspective of visual perception.
- With the continuous expansion of the city scale and urbanization, urban road networks are becoming increasingly complex. Moreover, severe and extreme weather events, earthquakes, and other natural disasters occur frequently. There- fore, how to effectively and quickly evacuate urban crowd in dynamic environments is an urgent issue. To carry out the above objective, an unmanned system-guided crowd evacuation method is proposed in the current study. In the proposed method, the robot can perceive the environment in a timely and accurate manner to generate the evacuation map via advanced information technologies such as the Internet of Things or urban brain. Subsequently, an improved elliptic tangent graph approach based on global and local information (ETG-GLI) is utilized to plan a feasible and short evacuation path in large-scale scenarios. Finally, a novel crowd evacuation model based on the social force model is proposed to simulate the actual crowd evacuation process in complex and large-scale environments. To test the performance of the proposed path planning method, 25 different scenarios are proposed to simulate complex urban crowd evacuation environments. The experimental results show that the proposed algorithm outperforms other competitors in terms of path planning ability and computational time. Three actual evacuation cases with 324 pedestrians are modeled to further test the performance of the proposed algorithm. The simulation results demonstrate that the unmanned system-guided crowd evacuation method can find a shorter evacuation path for reducing the evacuation time in three complex and large-scale environments when compared with three other methods. There- fore, the proposed algorithm is a highly effective and promising approach to provide useful decision support and guidance for actual urban planning and urban emergence management. Manuscript received 1 February 2024; accepted 22 February 2024. This article was recommended for publication by Asso
The sooty smoke generated from fire reduces visibility at fire scenes. This not only slows down evacuation, but also affects the mental states of evacuees. A series of evacuation experiments were conducted in a room under different visibility conditions. The crowd was formed by mixing individuals and social groups. Critical results regarding the evacuees' travel time, pre-movement time, movement speed and typical behaviour, such as leadership behaviour and following behaviour, were collected. It was found that evacuation time increased, movement speed decreased and flow at exits became discontinuous when visibility was reduced. Group behaviour had a negative effect on evacuation in normal visibility, but the group effect was basically positive in the reduced visibility scenarios. A number of interesting findings were generated. Larger sized groups tend to move side by side, forming a horizontal structure. Smaller sized groups are more likely to form a vertical structure. Similarly, groups with a leader demonstrated vertical movement, distinct from the horizontal move ment of groups without a leader. Following behaviour was more notably observed and is advantageous to overall evacuation when visibility reduced. The results of the pre-experiment questionnaire showed that over 80% of the participants walk in groups on campus. The daily walking groups tended to maintain their moving forms even in the case of an emergency evacuation. Physical touch was more widely demonstrated in the emergency groups than in the daily groups. This study furthers the understanding of human behaviour in different visibility evacuation conditions and recognition of the impacts of social groups on crowd dynamics.
The presence of social groups in pedestrian crowds can have a substantial effect on the overall evacuation process. However, crowds are mostly simplified as a collection of individuals, and the influence of grouping has not been widely considered in pedestrian crowd simulations. In this study, a novel model that accounts for social groups was implemented based on a social force framework to investigate evacuation dynamics in pedestrian crowds. The associated model parameters were calibrated via two group experiments to provide more credible and realistic simulation results. The effects of certain variables (e.g., group size, desired speed, exit width) on the overall evacuation performance and local group behaviour were investigated. The simulation results indicate that group effects facilitated overall crowd evacuation, especially when the exit was wide. The total evacuation time of a pedestrian crowd was shorter when the groups within the crowd were larger. The time intervals for groups of various sizes did not show a significant difference. The group shape was approximated as a rectangle, and the group features were therefore quantified by shape-related parameters (e.g., aspect ratio and area). The rectangle was shown to orient itself along the moving direction. An elongated configuration of the group became increasingly notable when the leader-follower relationship intensified, resulting in a queue-like formation that facilitated the overall evacuation. A certain trend was found that showed an increase in the aspect ratio and a decrease in the normalised area over time. The larger-sized group often seemed to have a smaller aspect ratio but required more space per person during movement. This study deepens the understanding of crowd evacuation dynamics featuring social groups.
-In evacuation models, individual interactions are typically assumed to follow the certain rules which are decided using prior knowledge. Our proposed improvement in evacuation modelling is inspired by the real-life experience that during crowd movements, individuals usually place their visual focus on the movements of their neighbours, even in the absence of social affiliations. That is, undeclared leader-follower (ULF) structures tend to emerge in crowd motion. In this study, to clarify the mechanism underlying individual interactions in crowd motion, a force-based model integrated with the ULF structure (LFM) was developed. An information-theoretic and model-free method, transfer entropy (TE), was applied to measure the ULF structure in evacuation crowds. Movement information (e.g., velocity and acceleration) was used as the time series for computing TE. The results showed that the LFM provides more realistic trajectories than does the classical social force model. In addition, the leader-follower structures were found to change over time, and an individual could act as a leader and a follower simultaneously during evacuation. ULF behaviour is strong at the early stage of evacuation and becomes weak when evacuees' differences in movement states diminish. Moreover, the density map of leaders' distributions presented a 'V-like' formation. Recognising the leader-follower relationship is central to understanding the mechanisms underlying the emergence of collective behaviour. The proposed approach is expected to aid in simulating realistic local interactions among evacuees and in providing a data-driven perspective for understanding crowd evacuation.
The leader-follower (L-F) relationship is believed to be the fundamental mechanism explaining the collective behaviour of a crowd. However, previous models are inherently limited in that they simulate a pre-defined L-F behaviour using simple heuristics. In this paper, we propose a new approach to measure the emergence of spontaneous L-F behaviour in an evacuating crowd using an information-theoretic and model-free method, i.e., transfer entropy (TE). The dynamic characteristics of evacuees (e.g., their trajectories, movement patterns and density plot) in a room (or corridor) are clearly visualised by the proposed TE-incorporating force-based model. The results show that the overall evacuation time decreases as the TE threshold increases. The trajectories occur in congested clusters when the TE threshold is low, but become more dispersed and uniformly distributed in scenarios with higher TE thresholds. In terms of group size, a spontaneous L-F group normally consists of one leader and one follower. L-F groups of larger-size (i.e., more than three followers of a leader) tend to disappear with increasing TE threshold. Lastly, we examine the location of spontaneous leadership emergence. Irrespective of the geometric layout or the number of evacuees in a room or corridor, the threshold at which distinct L-F patterns emerge is always approximately I_TE = 0.5. By innovatively integrating the TE approach into a force-based model, this study suggests a novel method for leadership identification during crowd evacuation given no prior knowledge.
Grouping is a common phenomenon that occurs everywhere. The leader-follower relationship inside groups has often been qualitatively characterized in previous models using simple heuristics. However, a general method is lacking to quantitatively explain leadership in an evacuating group. To understand the evolution of single-group dynamics throughout an evacuation, we developed an extended social force model integrated with a group force. A series of single-group evacuations from a room were simulated. An information-theoretic method, transfer entropy (TE), was applied to detect predefined and undeclared leadership among evacuees. The results showed that the predefined leader was correctly detected by TE, suggesting its capability in measuring leadership based on time series of evacuees' movement information (e.g., velocity and acceleration). When evacuees were grouped together, TE was higher than when they were alone. Leaders presented a monotonically increasing cumulative influence curve over the investigated period, whereas followers showed a diminishing tendency. We found that leadership emergence correlated with evacuees' spatial positions. The individual located in the foremost part of the group was most likely to become a leader of those in the rear, which concurred with the experimental observations. We observed how a large group split into smaller ones with undeclared leadership during evacuation. These observations were quantitatively verified by TE results. This study provides novel insights into quantifying leadership and understanding single-group dynamics during evacuations.
Chemical industry park plays an important role in optimizing the allocation of resources, but an emergency may make a great deal of personnel casualty and property loss. Many casualties are not the result of accidents but are caused by extreme behavior because of the non-adaptive psychology of the evacuees. Panic is one of the non- adaptive psychological behaviors during an evacuation, which is influenced by a variety of factors. Based on the consideration of the disaster environment and the evolution of crowd emotion, a system dynamics model of panic spread is established by using Anylogic software, and simulation experiments are carried out for different disaster severity, visibility, and groups. The results show that the number of people with severe panic increase when visibility decreases or disaster diffuses. Besides, the appropriate proportion of groups can effectively reduce the cooling time of crowd and ease the fears. However, continue to increase the number of groups has no sig nificant effect on the panic control. This work can provide some reasonable guidance for regional emergency evacuation in chemical park.
Suitable information of routes and exits can help guide evacuees to approach the expected destinations more efficiently in case of emergencies, such as fire accidents, terrorist attacks and power failures. Therefore, the purpose of this paper is to provide an overview of the dynamics of two patterns of guided crowd evacuation. One is source-guided crowd evacuation, and the other is leader-guided crowd evacuation. In source-guided crowd evacuation, sources located in fixed positions diffuse information to evacuees around them in a certain form such as light, sound and smell. However, in the leader-guided crowd evacuation, leaders convey information to evacuees they encounter along their trajectories by means of word-of-mouth communication. First, considering wall-following, herding, and inertia behaviors, a mesoscopic model is established to formulate the movement of uninformed pedestrians without information guidance. Then, considering information guidance, a set of movement rules are constructed to describe the evolution dynamics of crowds comprising uninformed and informed pedestrians. Further, the implementation of the simulation models reveals the subtle effects of the initial position of information sources, the propagation velocity of information sources, and the initial distribution of leaders on the evacuation efficiency of crowds. This study gives new insights into the design of information guidance systems in pedestrian walking facilities.
During an emergency or evacuation, individuals focus on the movement of their neighbors and follow those in sight, even without social affiliation, forming the undeclared Loose Leader- Follower (LLF) group, rather than the usual assumption of following certain rules in most of evacuation models. Inspired by the real-life experience and experimental data, the study develops a novel stochastic process-based evacuation model, integrated the LLF structure in collective motion to clarify the mechanism underlying individual interaction and refine the walking process according to attainable information. Transfer entropy (TE), a model-free measure of the direction of information flow, is used to detect the role of the individuals in the LLF structure from the time- series reconstructed motion information (e.g., the walking coordinate series). To reduce the error of the role detection, according to the 3σ principle for TE values, the detection threshold is decided based on the surrogate walking data. For simulation of their motion decision in the LLF structure, the TE is integrated into the walking behavior mode (TE-POMDP) using the Partially Observable Markov Decision Process (POMDP), that produces their motion behavior under the typical attained information condition. The results show that the TE-POMDP can provide more realistic trajectories. Additionally, we find that a 'Delta-like' formation of leading group distri bution was presented and remained stable in the procession after a short period of confusion in early stage.
Pedestrian dynamics is of great theoretical significance for strategy design of emergency evacuation. Modification of pedestrian dynamics based on the social force model is presented to better reflect pedestrians' behavioral characteristics in emergency. Specifically, the modified model can be used for guided crowd dynamics in large-scale public places such as subway stations and stadiums. This guided crowd model is validated by explicitly comparing its density-speed and density-flow diagrams with fundamental diagrams. Some social phenomena such as gathering, balance and conflicts are clearly observed in simulation, which further illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed modeling method. Also, time delay for pedestrians with time-dependent desired velocities is observed and explained using the established model in this paper. Furthermore, this guided crowd model is applied to the simulation system of Beijing South Railway Station for predictive evacuation experiments.
The role of guide who is in charge of leading pedestrians to evacuate in the case of emergency plays a critical role for the uninformed people. This paper first investigates the influence of mass behavior on evacuation dynamics and mainly focuses on the guided evacuation dynamics. In the extended crowd model proposed in this paper, individualistic behavior, herding behavior and environment influence are all considered for pedestrians who are not informed by the guide. According to the simulation results, herding behavior makes more pedestrians evacuate from the room in the same period of time. Besides, guided crowd demonstrates the same behavior of group dynamics which is characterized by gathering, conflicts and balance. Moreover, simulation results indicate guides with appropriate initial positions and quantity are more conducive to evacuation under a moderate initial density of pedestrians.
An extended guided crowd dynamics model is proposed to investigate the guide optimization during emergency evacuation. The initial assignment scheme for guides based on clustering algorithm, taking the numbers of both informed and uninformed pedestrians into consideration, is studied. The guide choice method for informed followers based on an exponent model, considering the distance to the guide and the follower quantity, is further investigated. On the basis of the modeling method of this paper, evacuation behavior dynamics under guides is explored, from which the leading role of guides can be clearly observed. The effects of guide quantity, parameter in the guide choice method and the size of visual field on evacuations are analyzed. Simulation results indicate that the evacuation efficiency gradually increases with the increase of guide quantity until it reaches a certain level, and the optimal number of guides is closely related to the initial distribution of pedestrians. The combination of density factor and distance factor with a reasonable proportion when determining which guide is very necessary. Pedestrians have stronger evacuation ability within a certain period of time when continuously increasing their visual radii. The study can provide theoretical suggestions for guiding pedestrian evacuation under emergencies.
Emergencies like natural disasters and terrorist attacks, which are characterized by sudden onset situations, have always been part of the world's reality. In these situations, collective human behavior such as crowd stampedes may be triggered. Sometimes stampedes lead to fatalities, as people are crushed or trampled. In this paper, a dynamic model for the evacuation of pedestrians during emergency situations is proposed with the consideration of information transmission in the crowd. In this model, based on a complex adaptive system, it is assumed that the information, part of which is psychology and behavior, has an influence on the interactions of pedestrians. We investigated two factors: (1) the systematic condition of information transmission and (2) the intensity of beneficial information that affects the interaction. Parameters of the factors are discussed to capture the dynamic features of the pedestrian crowd through proved theorems, and the critical values for effective evacuation are obtained. Finally, a numerical example for the evacuation of pedestrians is designed to validate the practicality of this model and mathematical demonstration.
As one of the most common self-organizing phenomena in social systems, queueing has been attracting a lot of interest. Understanding the local interaction mechanism in queueing behaviors is a critical issue in the field of crowd dynamics. However, most studies ignore the heuristic decision during queueing processes. Even less is known about the effect of queueing behaviors on the collective movement. Therefore, an extended social force queueing model is proposed, which is based on vision and morality. Guided by visual and moral information, the desired speed and direction are heuristically adjusted in the self-driven force. Numerical simulations indicate that our model constructs a more realistic and detailed framework for the interpretation of pedestrian queueing. This model successfully predicts the emergence of the ''detours'' phenomenon, which is beneficial for reducing crowd pressure. Furthermore, our model may provide guidance for crowd management in safety science and navigation in autonomous robots.
- In today's high-density urban environments, understanding pedestrian behavior in emergency evacuations is increasingly crucial. This study develops a sophisticated model integrating small-world network dynamics with emotional contagion to dissect pedestrian behaviors in such situations. Utilizing agent-based and complex network analyses, it delves into phase transitions in pedestrian order under various risk scenarios. The findings demonstrate significant behavioral variations in medium-risk environments, which are especially susceptible to transitions from orderly to disorderly states. This model emphasizes the important roles of emotional contagion in shaping crowd dynamics and the psychological factors alongside physical ones in evacuation strategies. Notably, this research illuminates the impacts of crowd size and speed on disorder evolution, which offers valuable insights for urban planning, architectural design, intelligent transportation systems, and emergency management. Overall, our study enriches the understanding of pedestrian dynamics in emergencies and provides a foundation for developing more effective public safety measures.
A social field model is extended by adding supports of simulations of crowd group related dynamics such as group cohesion, back-tracking, etc. A computational implementation combining heterogeneous computing and multi- threading technologies is developed to integrate the proposed extension into a heterogeneous computing framework. Hence modeling of group related dynamics can be accomplished in a very efficient manner. In the section of numerical experiments, the extended model is firstly validated with a set of practical data. Results show that the simulated evacuation time matches the practical one quite well. Then a study of fundamental diagrams is expanded with considerations of crowd groups. It is shown that the impact of crowd groups mainly happens in the regime of low densities and would become insignificant in the regime of high densities.
Most evacuation processes require the presence of people outside the scene, such as firefighters, to assist the trapped individuals to evacuate. This paper establishes an extended model for crowd evacuation considering rescue behavior. In the model, rescuers enter from the exit, approach the hazard source, and search for the injured individual. According to the physical condition of the injured pedestrian, there are two rescue methods: supporting or carrying the injured persons on their backs. Persons trapped in a room are evacuated by walking or crawling depending on their health condition, and healthy persons will rescue the surrounding crawling and evacuated individuals with a certain probability. Simulation results demonstrate that during the evacuation process considering rescue behavior: (1) The presence of rescuers improves evacuation efficiency. When the number of rescuers exceeds a certain threshold, the efficiency of evacuation will begin to decline. However, the evacuation efficiency with rescuers is still better than when there are no rescuers. (2) Increasing the possibility of pedestrian mutual assistance can improve evacuation efficiency. However, the effect of pedestrian mutual assistance probability on evacuation has a critical value. (3) The greater the distance from the hazard source to the exits, the smaller is the effect of the hazard source on evacuation. (4) when the total width of all exits is the same, the evacuation efficiency of two exits is higher than that of a single exit. The model and overall simulation results can help to develop different evacuation strategies and improve search and rescue plans according to specific scenes.
With the rapid development of the city, more and more people are choosing the subway as their travel mode. However, the hidden dangers of the subway are becoming increasingly prominent, and emergency evacuation of the subway has become a key factor for its safe operation. Therefore, the research objectives of this paper were to focus on the subway emergency evacuation hybrid model to fill the gap in the field of emergency evacuation simulation methods and countermeasure optimization. The analysis network process (ANP) was used to analyze the influence factors and weights of subway pedestrian evacuation. On this basis, a multiagent model of subway pedestrian evacuation (SD + multiagent) was developed and simulated. The results show that the comprehensive evacuation strategy could improve the evacuation efficiency, shorten the evacuation time, and avoid the waste of resources. This study not only improved the accuracy of the simulation, but also clarified the evacuation process. This approach can effectively prevent the occurrence of subway accidents, reduce casualties, and prevent large-scale casualties such as secondary accidents (induced secondary disasters).
An integrated framework supporting both leader-follower and leaderless groups is proposed. The concept of subgroup is supported so that chains of groups can exist. This allows to model complicated group relationships in crowd simulations. To model group related dynamics, rules are proposed. A detailed explanation of implementation of these rules is given. To validate the proposed framework, two sets of numerical experiments are conducted, using experimental data collected by previous researchers. In one set of experiments, small leader- follower groups without subgroups are considered. In the other set, groups are leaderless and can be small or large with zero or more subgroups. The impact of crowd groups on fundamental diagrams is also experimented. The conducted experiments indicate that the proposed framework can reproduce results that are quite comparable to practical values, thus the framework's efficacy is validated within a certain range.
- This paper studies the problem of controlling a group of mobile robots to drive a group of humans to an exit for emergency evacuation. The interactions between the robots and the humans are modeled by a social force model. A novel optimization problem is formulated to synthesize a controller with closed-form expression. Sufficient conditions for global asymptotic stability are established for the humans and the robots. A simulation is conducted to evaluate the proposed controller.
- Crowd evacuation has become a primary safety issue in many public places in a metropolitan area. Experts from different fields have worked on modeling and designing evacuating policies by using different tools and methods. In this paper, an optimal control approach is used to derive guiding strategies for the rescue agents under different circumstances. Various optimal control problems are formulated to handle different assumptions of the scenario. Both the analytic solutions and the numerical simulation confirm the efficiency of this approach, which in turn can be potentially used as decision- making support in practical applications.
In August 2011, a 5.8 magnitude earthquake struck the Baltimore/Washington, District of Columbia, corridor. The event identified a critical requirement to prepare our inter- professional team to evacuate approximately 60 neonatal patients. A needs assessment indicated that 60% of staff members had little or no knowledge of the unit's evacuation plan and 55% of respondents were not aware of their specific role in an emergency evacuation. The neonatal intensive care unit educators in collaboration with the unit's medical team, the leadership team, the hospital emergency management team, and the unit practice and professional council coordinated the design, implementation, and assessment of the simulated evacuation activity. To encourage realism within the simulated activity, prepared manikins were placed in patient rooms and assigned varying levels of acuity. The training session began with a prebrief session that included a description of the evacuation plan, delineation of roles, responsibilities based on scope of practice, use of the evacuation equipment, and unit emergency bags. Participants engaged in a debrief session following each session during which the staff notably expressed an increased confidence with the evacuation Author Affiliation: Neonatal Intensive Care Unit, Children's National Medical Center, Washington, District of Columbia. The authors acknowledge Amanda Garrow, Blare Harner, Joan Paribello and Michelande Ridore for their support. Disclosure: The authors have disclosed that they have no significant relationships with, or financial interest in, any commercial companies pertaining to this article. Each author has indicated that he or she has met the journal's require- ments for Authorship. Corresponding Author: Lisa Zell, BSN, 111 Michigan Ave NW, Wash- ington, DC 20010 (lzell@childrensnational.org). Submitted for publication: December 6, 2018; accepted for publication: May 23, 2019. plan, roles, and operation of the evacuation equipment. In addition, the debriefing allowed for identification of latent threats, which the planning group used to streamline the evacuation process.
- When a disaster happens, evacuation in a building can be dangerous. It is well known that trained leaders have an important influence on saving human lives in emergency evacuation. In this paper, we present a novel distributed multi-robot system for guiding people in an emergency evacuation mission. A closed environment, which is represented by the means of Laplacian Artificial Potential Field (LAPF), is considered in the emergency evacuation scenario. A cooperative exit seeking algorithms is designed for the robots to guide evacuees by online estimating the gradient and tracing gradient-descend while maintaining a predefined formation in movement. To better deal with evacuees' behavior in emergency situations, a human panic behavior model is taken into account to the evacuation strategies. Simulations of a single robot team and multi-team are shown to demonstrate our methods for evacuation guidance.
Guidance is an efficient crowd management measure used to save lives in emergencies because it can reduce the disorientation of pedestrians. This study investigates an optimal guidance strategy for large-scale crowd evacuations. To increase computational efficiency, a pedestrian cell transmission model is extended to create a rapid simulation of guided crowd dynamics. To solve the conflicts between the limited guidance capacity and the desire to improve evacuation efficiency, a strategic guidance model is proposed, which generates a leader location and exit selection plan. A simulation algorithm is proposed to integrate a pedestrian following model and strategic guidance model based on the follower-leader interaction. Finally, a hybrid multiscale approach for modeling guided crowd evacuations is established to evaluate the performance of the guidance strategy. The experimental results show that the required CPU time of the proposed model is much less than that of the microscopic models. Because the number of leaders is minimized and the exit is selected by taking both risk and congestion into account, the obtained guidance strategy can realize the full use of guidance capacity, information confusion reduction and uniform exit usage, all of which contribute to a reduction in evacuation time.
Studies of crowd behavior with related research on computer simulation provide an effective basis for architectural design and effective crowd management. Based on low- density group organization patterns, a modified two-layer social force model is proposed in this paper to simulate and reproduce a group gathering process. First, this paper studies evacuation videos from the Luan'xian earthquake in 2012, and extends the study of group organization patterns to a higher density. Furthermore, taking full advantage of the strength in crowd gathering simulations, a new method on grouping and guidance is proposed while using crowd dynamics. Second, a real-life grouping situation in earthquake evacuation is simulated and reproduced. Comparing with the fundamental social force model and existing guided crowd model, the modified model reduces congestion time and truly reflects group behaviors. Furthermore, the experiment result also shows that a stable group pattern and a suitable leader could decrease collision and allow a safer evacuation process.
It is widely accepted that effective leadership can improve evacuation efficiency, so how to guide the crowd effectively deserves great attention. However, little research has been done on the effect of an individual on crowd following behaviors in two-dimensional scenarios, especially the agreement between the followers and the leader. In this study, several controlled experiments were conducted to explore the effect of an individual (the leader) on the crowd movement, considering different group sizes and the leader's speeds. A new method was proposed to evaluate the leadership effect based on the agreement between the followers' and the leader's motion. Different weight parameters were defined to reflect different states including speed matching, angular speed adjustment, and the states of ineffective leadership. The results showed that the leadership effect was weakened as the leader's speed or the group size increases, and the leader's speed had a greater impact on the leadership effect than the group size. *Authors to whom any correspondence should be addressed.
-In emergency evacuations, crowds often become congested and stampeded because of extreme panic, resulting in injuries and fatalities. Safety officers can spread positive emotions and reduce crowd panic by issuing information or appeasement, which is an effective way to ensure evacuation safety. However, how to deploy safety officers appropriately and maximize positive emotional contagion to cover the largest number of chaotic individuals is still a challenging problem. To solve this problem, we propose an IoT-based positive emotional contagion (IoT-PEC) method for crowd evacuation. First, we employ IoT technologies to capture the attributes of crowd movement, such as position and velocity. Based on these attributes, the crowd chaos can be quantified by calculating the macroscopic and microscopic entropies. Second, we propose an entropy-based anisotropic emotional contagion model (E-AECM) to achieve the nonuniform positive emotional contagion considering the influence of chaos on the propagation rate. Third, we formulate the problem of safety officer placement as an optimization problem to maximize the positive emotional contagion on the chaos individuals. Finally, we implement a simulation system for crowd evacuation to visualize the results of positive emotion contagion. The proposed method can provide guidance for emergency response management.
In emergencies, guides play a significant role for evacuees who are unfamiliar with the environment. Proper guidance can improve evacuation efficiency, and the position of guidance is particularly important. However, most studies are focused on the simulation model to explore the optimal guidance position and the experiments are less conducted. In addition, the pedestrians' behaviors under emergency conditions are usually different from those in normal conditions. In this work, several controlled experiments were conducted to study the effect of guidance positions and stress levels on evacuation efficiency and pedestrians' behavior. The results show that the pedestrians have a better evacuation performance with guidance under high-stress conditions. Compared with the low-stress level, the pedestrians under the high-stress level evacuate faster and the flow is more continuous. The pedestrians under the high-stress level take longer to make decisions when the exit is unknown but show larger competitiveness when the goal is clear. Besides, guidance can improve evacuation efficiency due to providing exit information to pedestrians. It also reveals that guidance mainly influences the pedestrians who are located nearby and has the greatest effect on helping those far from the exit. These findings can provide empirical data about the effect of guidance on emergency evacuation and further the understanding of pedestrian be haviors in high-stress conditions, which are valuable for crowd management.
The evacuation of crowd mixed by individuals and social groups with low visibility under fire has attracted increasing attention. A series of evacuation experiments were conducted in a room under different visibility conditions. Critical results regarding the movement speed, evacuation time and typical behavior, were collected. The results show that evacuation with group can be more advantageous than individual evacuation under limited visibility with 9%-transparency eyepatches. Two movement modes of groups for evacuation are found in limited visibility, including the leadership mode and cooperative mode. To capture and evaluate the influence of group behaviors on crowd evacuation, we propose an extended floor field cellular automaton model to perform such phenomena, which is validated with the comparison of experimental results. The characteristics of two movement modes for groups are explored with multiple cases considering the effects of factors such as the occupant density, familiarity of exits and number of group members. The results show that the cooperative mode is superior to the leadership mode for groups when the occupant density is between 0.05 and 0.08 ped/cell without the familiarity of exits and the exits trigger, and it is adverse when the density is less than 0.02 ped/cell. In addition, the occupant density has an obvious effect on the evacuation distance between the members of groups when people are familiar with the exits. This study can be reference to the verification of egress-related computational models and fire safety engineering design.
Pedestrian evacuation modelling and simulation (PEMS) plays an important role to analyse and understand individual and crowd behaviours in disastrous scenarios such as fires, floods, terrorism and national emergencies. Based on observations and statistical analysis from PEMS, appropriate evacuation plans can be formulated so as to significantly reduce casualty numbers in such situations. Recent work on small-group-based pedestrian evacuation investigates how people often move in social groups during evacuations. However, there is a lack of comprehensive studies to understand the impact of various factors occurring in small group evacuations, such as the group size, whether there is a leader in the group or not, or the influence of other conditions (e.g., multi-exit evacuations). In this paper, we present a novel PEMS framework to understand the effect of small group scenarios for pedestrian evacuation. In particular, we introduce an evacuation model with multiple conditions, including small-group forces and multi-exit conditions, under a realistic scenario. Furthermore, we perform a comprehensive small-group-based pedestrian evacuation simulation to gain insights into how various factors, such as group size and leadership, impact the evacuation efficiency. Based on our experimental analysis, it is found that through heuristic settings on evacuation groups, e.g., group size and assignment of leadership, it is possible to effectively improve evacuation efficiency, thus providing useful guidance to evacuation plans.
Crowd at metro stations is usually a mixture of individuals and small groups of families or friends. However, limited research has focused on small group behaviours for metro safe evacuation evaluation and planning. In this study, a field observation at metro stations and a questionnaire survey were conducted to reveal the small group behaviour characteristics with different decision patterns and compactness. A cellular automaton (CA) based simulation model was proposed to reproduce small group behaviours of independent or joint decision pattern, with loose or close contact, reflecting the real-time trade-off between individual efficiency and group coherence. Impacts of small group behaviours on crowd dynamics were investigated by simulation experi ments under diverse scenarios. Simulation experiments revealed that joint decision pattern and close contact of small groups were more likely to lead to longer evacuation time, lower average speed and stronger interference on the individuals. Deviations of estimated evacuation time due to small group behaviours were investigated and found to be common and widespread with different group decision pattern and compactness, congestion levels, proportions of groups in the crowd and exit layouts.
-Research on pedestrian movement is of great significance for public safety management and the formulation of safe evacuation strategies. The compatibility effect of approaching the positive and avoiding the negative is a common phenomenon in pedestrian movements, there is a compatibility relationship between emotional stimuli and approach avoidance behavior, individuals are faster in avoiding than in approaching negative stimuli, they are faster in approaching than in avoiding positive stimuli, and emotional difference is an important reason for this phenomenon. However, current pedestrian movement models cannot simulate the movement phenomenon caused by emotional differences, the application of sensors mainly focuses on real-time navigation and scene monitoring, and research on sensor-based pedestrian movement simulation is lacking. These reduce the effect of pedestrian movement simulation and the crowd evacuation efficiency. For this purpose, a sensor- based pedestrian movement simulation and evacuation method is proposed in this article. First, image sensors are used to collect multiple media data (images and videos), and an emotional perception model is proposed to associate pedestrians' emotional states with their movement characteristics. Then, an emotional difference-based pedestrian movement model (ED-PMM) is constructed to describe the compatibility effect of approaching the positive and avoiding the negative in pedestrian movements. Finally, based on wireless sensors, a personalized path planning method considering the emotional differences of pedestrians is designed to guide pedestrians to evacuate. The experiment results show that the ED-PMM can improve the simulation effect of pedestrian movement and the evacuation strategy can improve the evacuation efficiency.
Existing crowd evacuation simulation methods commonly face challenges of low efficiency in path planning and insufficient realism in pedestrian movement during the evacuation process. In this study, we propose a novel crowd evacuation path planning approach based on the learning curve-deep deterministic policy gradient (LC-DDPG) algorithm. The algorithm incorporates dynamic experience pool and a priority experience sampling strategy, enhancing convergence speed and achieving higher average rewards, thus efficiently enabling global path planning. Building upon this foundation, we introduce a double-layer method for crowd evacuation using deep reinforcement learning. Specifically, within each group, individuals are categorized into leaders and followers. At the top layer, we employ the LC-DDPG algorithm to perform global path planning for the leaders. Simultaneously, at the bottom layer, an enhanced social force model guides the followers to avoid obstacles and follow the leaders during evacuation. We implemented a crowd evacuation simulation platform. Experimental results show that our proposed method has high path planning efficiency and can generate more realistic pedestrian trajectories in different scenarios and crowd sizes. K E Y W O R D S crowd evacuation simulation, deep reinforcement learning, path planning, pedestrian movement modeling
-In crowd evacuation research, the knowledge contained in crowd evacuation is very complex and is multisource. Crowd evacuation scenarios restrict pedestrians' movement decision-making, and the movement states of the crowd imply the movement characteristics. However, the existing studies on crowd evacuation navigation approach cannot make full use of the complex and multisource crowd evacuation knowledge, which reduces the effect of the evacuation navigation. To solve this problem, a new crowd evacuation navigation approach based on multisource knowledge is proposed. First, we collect relevant data on crowd evacuation using an image sensor network and establish a crowd evacuation knowledge graph to organize and store this data. Second, the explicit knowledge of scene structure and crowd movements is represented based on the crowd evacuation knowledge graph. Then, a deep-learning-based tacit knowledge model (DLTKM) is designed to extract the tacit knowledge of different groups and scene entities. Finally, a new crowd evacuation navigation approach based on wireless sensor network and related knowledge representations is designed to plan evacuation paths for evacuees. The experiment results show that this approach can plan reasonable evacuation paths for pedestrians, and improve the efficiency of crowd evacuations.
In this article, we propose a role-dependent (RD) data-driven modeling approach to simulate pedestrians' motion in high-density scenes. It is commonly observed that pedestrians behave quite differently when walking in a dense crowd. Some people explore routes toward their destinations. Meanwhile, some people deliberately follow others, leading to lane formation. Based on these observations, two roles are included in the proposed model: leader and follower. The motion behaviors of leader and follower are modeled separately. Leaders' behaviors are learned from real crowd motion data using state-action pairs, while followers' behaviors are calculated based on specific targets that are obtained dynamically during the simulation. The proposed RD model is trained and applied to different real-world datasets to evaluate its generality and effectiveness. The simulation results demonstrate that the RD model is capable of simulating crowd behaviors in crowded scenes realistically and reproducing collective crowd behaviors such as lane formation.
Simulation modeling is an important tool for simulating crowd behavior and studying the law of crowd evacuation. It is of great significance for exploring evacuation management methods in emergency situations. The real-time change of evacuation is the main challenge of simulation modeling. In the evacuation simulation, it is difficult for people to choose a suitable route according to the change of evacuation dynamics. This paper proposes a new evacuation simulation method which combines an improved artificial bee colony algorithm for dynamic path planning and SFM (Social Force Model) for simulating the movement of pedestrians, to providing pedestrians with timely route selection. In the path planning layer, we developed a MABCM (Multiple-subpopulations Artificial Bee Colony with Memory) algorithm and proposed a new exit evaluation strategy. These methods can plan a route with the shortest evacuation time for pedestrians according to the dynamic changes of evacuation and improve evacuation efficiency. In the simulated motion layer, we use the SFM to avoid collisions and achieve the reproduction of the evacuation scene. We verified the performance of the proposed MABCM on the CEC 2014 benchmark suite, and the results show that it is superior to the four existing artificial bee colony algorithms in most cases. The proposed crowd evacuation method is verified on an existing SFM platform. The experimental results indicate that the proposed method can efficiently evacuate a dense crowd in multiple scenes and can effectively shorten evacuation time.
Deep reinforcement learning (DRL) has been proved to be more suitable than reinforcement learning for path planning in large-scale scenarios. In order to more effectively complete the DRL-based collaborative path planning in crowd evacuation, it is necessary to consider the space expansion problem brought by the increase of the number of agents. In addition, it is often faced with complicated circumstances, such as exit selection and congestion in crowd evacuation. However, few existing works have integrated these two aspects jointly. To solve this problem, we propose a planning approach for crowd evacuation based on the improved DRL algorithm, which will improve evacuation efficiency for large-scale crowd path planning. First, we propose a framework of congestion detection-based multi-agent reinforcement learning, the framework divides the crowd into leaders and followers and simulates leaders with a multi-agent system, it considers the congestion detection area is set up to evaluate the degree of congestion at each exit. Next, under the specification of this framework, we propose the improved Multi-Agent Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (IMADDPG) algorithm, which adds the mean field network to maximize the returns of other agents, enables all agents to maximize the performance of a collaborative planning task in our training period. Then, we implement the hierarchical path planning method, which upper layer is based on the IMADDPG algorithm to solve the global path, and lower layer uses the reciprocal velocity obstacles method to avoid collisions in crowds. Finally, we simulate the proposed method with the crowd simulation system. The experimental results show the effectiveness of our method.
To comprehensively analyze the impact of both emotional contagion and evacuation assistant on the whole process of crowd evacuation, and to provide some feasible suggestions for safety officers, a novel approach named Improved Social Force Model Based on Emotional Contagion and Evacuation Assistant is proposed. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that comprehensively takes both emotional contagion and evacuation assistant into account in the relevant studies of Social Force Model. Firstly, we optimize the original Social Force Model to offset the overlapping phenomenon caused by pedestrians' body compression and relative tangential motion. Secondly, we construct an emotional-contagion- based model, which is integrated into the self-driving force of the Social Force Model, to dynamically adjust pedestrian's velocity and direction. Finally, specific evacuation strategies are adopted for different types of pedestrians, and evacuation assistants are set to guide the evacuees who are panic about the hazards in a rational way. Obviously, shown by extensive evaluations and experimental results, the model presented in this article reflects the influence of Emotional Contagion and Evacuation Assistant on crowd evacuation genuinely and efficiently, outperforming mainstream approaches in evacuation efficiency.
- This work studies a robot-assisted crowd evacuation problem where we control a small group of robots to guide a large human crowd to safe locations. The challenge lies in how to model human-robot interactions and design robot controls to indirectly control a human population that significantly outnumbers the robots. To address the challenge, we treat the crowd as a continuum and formulate the evacuation objective as driving the crowd density to target locations. We propose a novel mean-field model which consists of a family of microscopic equations that explicitly model how human motions are locally guided by the robots and an associated macroscopic equation that describes how the crowd density is controlled by the navigation velocity fields generated by all robots. Then, we design density feedback controllers for the robots to dynamically adjust their states such that the generated navigation velocity fields drive the crowd density to a target density. Stability guarantees of the proposed controllers are proven. Agent-based simulations are included to evaluate the proposed evacuation algorithms.
- Emergency evacuation describes a complex situation involving time-critical decision-making by evacuees. Mobile robots are being actively explored as a potential solution to provide timely guidance. This work studies a robot-guided crowd evacuation problem where a small group of robots is used to guide a large human crowd to safe locations. The challenge lies in how to use microlevel human-robot interactions to indirectly influence a population that significantly outnumbers the robots to achieve the collective evacuation objective. To address the challenge, we follow a two-scale modeling strategy and explore hydrodynamic models, which consist of a family of microscopic social force models that describe how human movements are locally affected by other humans, the environment, and robots, and associated macroscopic equations for the temporal and spatial evolution of the crowd density and flow velocity. We design controllers for the robots, such that they not only automatically explore the environment (with unknown dynamic obstacles) to cover it as much as possible, but also dynamically adjust the directions of their local navigation force fields based on the real-time macrostates of the crowd to guide the crowd to a safe location. We prove the stability of the proposed evacuation algorithm and conduct extensive simulations to investigate the performance of the algorithm with different combinations of human numbers, robot numbers, and obstacle settings.
Evacuation leaders are conducive to the improvement of crowd evacuation efficiency when the evacuees are not familiar with the evacuation routes. The assignment of the number and positions of leaders is particularly important for the efficiency of evacuation. This paper formulates the optimization of passenger evacuation with leaders in a subway station by taking the labor, time, and safety costs into account. A maximal covering model with modifications is proposed to optimize the number and initial locations of leaders. The modifications of social force model are used to represent the dynamics of the evacuees and the leaders in simulations. We use the microscopic simulations of the evacuation of a subway station in Beijing to evaluate the performance of the proposed optimal evacuation strategy. Compared to empirically placing the leaders in the subway station, the proposed strategy shows better performance in terms of labor cost, evacuation time and safety level. *State Key Laboratory of Rail Traffic Control and Safety, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing 100044, China (e-mail: (minzhou, hrdong)@bjtu.edu.cn) **Department of Electrical Engineering, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90089-2560, USA, (e-mail: (yanbozha, yihangzh, ioannou)@usc.edu) Min Zhou *Hairong Dong *Yanbo Zhao **Yihang Zhang ** Petros A.Ioannou ** Optimal number and location planning of evacuation leader in subway stations ⋆ Min Zhou et al. / IFAC PapersOnLine 51-9 (2018) 410-415 411 to the crowd evacuation efficiency. In addition, it appears that the number and locations of leaders has great impact on the evacuation efficiency. However, there are different points of views regarding the optimal number and locations for evacuation leaders. Pelechano and Badler (2006) revealed that the optimal proportion of trained leaders to evacuees is 1:9. But, Wang et al. (2012) found that the optimal proportion of leaders to evacuees is 1:20, which is also the proportion recommended by federal guideline
-The adoption of passenger leaders could make crowd evacuation in urban railway transit (URT) stations more efficient. The number, location, and the actions of the leaders are the most important elements in an evacuation strategy and have a great impact on evacuation efficiency. This paper proposes a hybrid bi-level model to optimize the number and initial locations of leaders as well as the routes of leaders during the evacuation, which explicitly incorporates the passengers' guidance demand and multi-leader coordination mechanism. The leaders' initial locations are generated by solving the maximal covering location problem (upper level model) and their evacuation routes are determined by a co-simulation heuristic approach (lower level model). The social force model and its modifications are used to model the dynamics of common evacuees, leaders, and followers in simulation models. The convergence performance of the proposed co-simulation heuristic approach and the effectiveness of the optimal evacuation strategy have been investigated and demonstrated using a case study of a typical island platform of Beijing's URT station. Three other evacuation strategies are considered for comparison purposes in order to show the influence of the number and initial locations of leaders as well as the multi- leader coordination mechanism during the evacuation process. Our analysis supported by simulations shows the following: 1) the optimal number of leaders exists for a given human cost and guidance demand constraints; 2) the distribution of leaders for maximal covering makes the evacuation of the followers more efficient; and 3) the proposed optimal evacuation strategy has better performance in terms of shorter evacuation time and higher utilization of exits compared with other considered strategies.
One of the most common solutions for the prevention of fire accidents is to conduct extensive fire evacuation drills in crowded places. However, there are multiple salient advantages to using virtual reality technology to simulate emergency solutions, for instance, saving costs and greatly decreasing uncertain risks or accidents. Therefore, in this article, a multiagent evacuation framework for complex virtual fire scenarios is proposed and effectively used to simulate a multiagent evacuation procedure to approximate the goal of fire drills in a less costly manner. Specifically, the concept of a multihierarchy agent group model is proposed; that is, the evacuation of multiple agents is separated into leader-follower and freedom modes. Additionally, several complex actions of individual humans in actual fire drills are fully considered, and a multiaction agent schema is presented to characterize the associated real effects. In addition, generative adversarial imitation learning is adopted to obtain the evacuation path of the leader-agent by training numerous learning epochs. Finally, extensive experiments are conducted to validate the feasibility of our proposed method. The results show that the proposed method is superior to other methods and that it realistically and reasonably shows the procedure of multiagent evacuation in complex fire emergency scenarios. K E Y W O R D S fire evacuation drills, generative adversarial imitation learning, leader-follower, multiagent evacuation, virtual reality
The rapid and orderly evacuation of passengers at the railway hub station in case of emergencies is an important issue for railway safety and efficiency. In this paper, a robot-guided passenger evacuation method is proposed to help passengers search evacuation paths and avoid potential risks. The number and initial positions of robots are determined by using a k-means clustering approach. The exit assignment and evacuation paths of robots are calculated by using a hybrid bi-level optimization approach taking into account the cooperative mechanism between robots. Then, a robot-guided crowd evacuation dynamical model is built based on a modified social force model, in which a navigation force is introduced to influence the speed and direction of evacuees. A case study of a typical railway hub station is used to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach. The scenarios of the mall and platform are designed to verify the evacuation efficiency under different robot distribution schemes. The experimental results prove that setting up robots can effectively reduce evacuation time, and the utilization of exits is more balanced. The proposed optimal scheme shows the best performance in evacuation efficiency, including evacuation time and exit utilization rate, compared to the uniform distribution scheme and no robot scheme.
-Setting up guidance equipment and leaders is widely used as an effective measure to improve the operation and evacuation efficiency of subway stations for the safety of passengers. Cooperation among different kinds of guidance modals can benefit the passenger evacuation process and reduce the operating and management costs as well as the risk of injury to people in subway stations. This article proposes a framework of multimodal cooperative guidance (MMCG) systems for commanding the crowd evacuation in case of emergency, where three types of guidance modes are considered. The bi-level MMCG optimization models are constructed to determine the optimal quantities and initial locations of multimodal guidance. The MMCG schemes are designed by minimizing cost functions taking into account the constraints of the number of guidance, valid coverage, and guiding expectation. An extended social force (SF) model is proposed to study crowd evacuation dynamics with multimodal guidance. The computational experiments are conducted to evaluate the performance of the proposed cooperative guidance schemes at the subway platform scenario. Three unimodal guidance schemes and a contrasted scheme without guidance are also proposed as comparison schemes. The results show that the crowd evacuation efficiency and the utilization ratio of exits are improved by taking into account the cooperation among different guidance modals.
Understanding human behavior in emergency evacuation is a significant issue for layout optimization, crowd management and rescue. In this study, we conducted a series of controlled experiments to study choice behavior of pedestrians considering environment factors (e.g. occupant initial distribution, auditory information, and building layout). We found it was non-symmetrical for pedestrians' exit selection and aisle selection in the room. And there was a strong positive relation between intermediate exit choice and destination choice. Pedestrians' final destinations had significantly effects on evacuation route and intermediate facilities usage. When the final destination was uncertain, the factor of building layout performed more effect than occupant initial distribution. Pedestrian psychology, following the crowd, had a major influence on pedestrians' exit stairs selection, especially when pedestrians were in non-limited visual field environment. Bifurcation point, where a row of pedestrians split into two streams with diametrically opposite movement directions, was a quite biased away from the side of exit. The conclusions are expected to provide valuable advice for crowd management and optimization design such as aisle-seating layout.
-Maintaining the orderliness and efficiency of pedestrian flow through an architectural area is critical for the evacuation process. Especially, clogs and jams are easily triggered in width-changing areas. In this article, we consider pedestrian movement in heterogeneous corridors and design an optimal feedback control to regulate pedestrian flow. Flow characteristics are first studied based on microscopic social-force simulations. A Gaussian process describes the relationship between flow variables with the observation data. The macroscopic model for flow in heterogeneous corridors is developed. To avoid jams, discharges among these corridors are balanced with the narrowest corridor as the primary concern. At the equilibrium, a continuous-time nonlinear control system is formulated, and the adaptive dynamic programming learns the optimal feedback controller. Policy iteration (PI) and neural networks are combined together, and the convergence of neural-network-based PI is demonstrated by analyzing its equivalence to the Gauss-Newton method. Batch normalization is introduced to stabilize the learning process. Simulated experiments demonstrate that the control design can effectively regulate pedestrian flow for both macroscopic and microscopic models. Note to Practitioners-The development of video-processing techniques provides a powerful tool to detect human behavior in real time. In crowd events, the pedestrian movement must be regulated; otherwise, it is easy to fall into the faster-is- slower effect. It is especially important for evacuation routes with different widths. In this article, the optimal feedback control is studied to regulate pedestrian flow in heterogeneous corridors. It takes flow densities as state and produces commands that are composed of entrance influx and free-flow velocities. These commands can be executed with the support of speakers, displays, or the recently developed interactive robots. To avoid congestion, discharges of different corridors are ba
Evacuation can be the most necessary and effective method to save human lives in emergency scenarios due to natural or human-caused disasters. The emergency egress behavior of humans is not only affected by damage caused by danger sources directly, but also depends on time-varying internal states of evacuees, such as their familiarity with the environment, the information perceived, and the emotional responses triggered by the incident and casualties. This study presents a method of crowd evacuation simulation under a toxic gas incident considering the effects of emotion contagion and information diffusion, which consists of four main parts: the gas dispersion model, the information diffusion model, the emotion contagion model, and the modified social force model. First, the gas dispersion model characterizing the concentration of the toxic gas is used to determine the impairment of the pedestrian. Second, the spread of the information about the incident and the exits is modeled by the information transmission model. The emotion contagion model was adopted to quantify the emotion and panic. Then the social force model is modified to integrate these effects to generate the movements in the evacuation process. Numerical simulations show that the incorporation of emotion contagion and information transmission can cause significant differences, as compared to existing models, in terms of evacuation time, number of casualties, and number of collisions. The influences of the number of evacuees, the perception radius, and the number of authority figures on the evacuation site are examined in the parametric study. DOI: 10.1061/(ASCE)CP.1943-5487.0000889.
This paper conceptualizes the problem of emergency evacuation as a paradigm for investigating human-robot interaction. We argue that emergency evacuation offers unique and important perspectives on human-robot interaction while also demanding close attention to the ethical ramifications of the technologies developed. We present a series of approaches for developing emergency evacuation robots and detail several essential design considerations. This paper concludes with a discussion of the ethical implications of emergency evacuation robots and a roadmap for their development, implementation, and evaluation.
Emergency evacuation of crowds is a fascinating phenomenon that has attracted researchers from various fields. Better understanding of this class of crowd behavior opens up for improving evacuation policies and smarter design of buildings, increasing safety. Recently, a new class of disruptive technology has appeared: Human-centered sensing which allows crowd behavior to be monitored in real-time, and provides the basis for real-time crowd control. The question then becomes: to what degree can previous crowd models incorporate this development, and what areas need further research? In this paper, the authors provide a survey that describes some widely used crowd models and discuss the advantages and shortages from the angle of human-centered sensing. Their review reveals important research opportunities that may contribute to an improved and more robust emergency management. Comparing Different Crowd Emergency Evacuation Models Based on Human Centered Sensing Criteria Jaziar Radianti, Centre for Integrated Emergency Management (CIEM), University of Agder, Kristiansand, Norway Ole-Christoffer Granmo, Centre for Integrated Emergency Management (CIEM), University of Agder, Kristiansand, Norway Noureddine Bouhmala, Department of Information and Communication Technology, University of Agder, Kristiansand, Norway Parvaneh Sarshar, Centre for Integrated Emergency Management (CIEM), University of Agder, Kristiansand, Norway Jose J. Gonzalez, Centre for Integrated Emergency Management (CIEM), University of Agder, Kristiansand, Norway
This paper describes a model that simulates crowd movement incorporating an efficient follow-the-leader technique based on cellular automata (CA). The scope of the method is to derive principal characteristics of collective motion of biological organisms, such as flocks, swarms or herds and to apply them to the simulation of crowd movement. Thus, the study focuses on the massive form of the movement of individuals, which is lastingly detected mac- roscopically, during urgent circumstances with the help of some form of guidance. Nevertheless, on a lower level, this formation derives from the application of simple local rules that are applied individually to every single member of the group. Hence, the adoption of CA-based formation has allowed the development of a micro-operating model with macro-features. Furthermore, the model takes advantage of the inherent ability of CA to represent sufficiently phenomena of arbitrary complexity. The response of the model has been evaluated through different simulation scenes that have been developed both in two and three dimensions.
There is considerable evidence that psychological membership of crowds can protect people in dangerous events, although the underlying social-psychological processes have not been fully investigated. There is also evidence that those responsible for managing crowd safety view crowds as a source of psychological danger, views that may themselves impact upon crowd safety; yet, there has been little examination of how such 'disaster myths' operate in practice. In a study of an outdoor music event characterized as a near disaster, analysis of questionnaire survey data ( N = 48) showed that social identification with the crowd predicted feeling safe directly as well as indirectly through expectations of help and trust in others in the crowd to deal with an emergency. In a second study of the same event, qualitative analysis of interviews ( N = 20) and of contemporaneous archive materials showed that, in contrast to previous findings, crowd safety professionals' references to 'mass panic' were highly nuanced. Despite an emphasis by some safety professionals on crowd 'disorder', crowd participants and some of the professionals also claimed that self-organization in the crowd prev
This dissertation is a qualitative study of occupant behavior in response to the 2001 World Trade Center (WTC) disaster. Through analyses of transcripts from 245 face-to-face interviews with survivors from both WTC towers, collected by Project HEED, I investigate the pre-evacuation period in what became the largest full-scale building evacuation in history. The objectives of this study are to understand the types of actions performed before occupants began evacuation via stairs and elevators and why those actions were taken to improve techniques used and to address inadequacies in evacuation modeling tools. Drawing on social psychological theories of human action in normal times, collective behavior and sensemaking during normative crises, and emergency decision-making and protective action in response to hazards and disasters, and research on decision-making under uncertainty (including the importance of satisficing rationality), I examine how interviewees made sense of environmental cues, interpreted the situation and danger to themselves and others, and decided upon pre-evacuation actions, either to seek confirmation or achieve protection. Subsequently, I developed a predictive
Crowd behaviour in emergencies has previously been explained in terms of either 'mass panic' or strength of pre-existing social bonds. The present paper reports results from a study comparing high- versus low-identification emergency mass emergency survivors to test the interlinked claims (1) that shared identity in an emergency crowd enhances expressions of solidarity and reduces 'panic' behaviour and (2) that such a shared identity can arise from the shared experience of the emergency itself. Qualitative and descriptive quantitative analyses were carried out on interviews with 21 survivors of 11 emergencies. The analysis broadly supports these two claims. The study therefore points to the usefulness of a new approach to mass emergency behaviour, based on self-categorization theory (SCT).
As an alternative to the classic mass panic model for explaining human behavior in emergency situations, we tested the social attachment model notion that emergency responses are influenced by not only perceived physical danger but also social factors, such as the presence of close others. Participants ( N = 141) completed a postfire survey assessing perceived danger, presence of close others, group evacuation, emergency responses, and pre-evacuation time. Results showed that (1) individuals with close others tended to delay their evacuation and exhibit more affiliation behaviors; (2) when with close others, women (vs. men) were more likely to exhibit affiliation and less likely to exhibit helping behaviors; and (3) regardless of the presence of close others, helping behaviors were more likely to occur when the situation was perceived as more dangerous. Further exploration into gender norms and social identity is needed to develop a more comprehensive model of social attachment.
Social scientists have criticised computer models of pedestrian streams for their treatment of psychological crowds as mere aggregations of individuals. Indeed most models for evacuation dynamics use analogies from physics where pedestrians are considered as particles. Although this ensures that the results of the simulation match important physical phenomena, such as the deceleration of the crowd with increasing density, social phenomena such as group processes are ignored. In particular, people in a crowd have social identities and share those social identities with the others in the crowd. The process of self categorisation determines norms within the crowd and influences how people will behave in evacuation situations. We formulate the application of social identity in pedestrian simulation algorithmically. The goal is to examine whether it is possible to carry over the psychological model to computer models of pedestrian motion so that simulation results correspond to observations from crowd psychology. That is, we quantify and formalise empirical research on and verbal descriptions of the effect of group identity on behaviour. We use uncertainty quantification to analyse the
Understanding how people respond in the first moments of fire incidents is crucial for emergency planning and preparedness, and disasters such as the Grenfell Tower fire show that much work is needed to ensure safety for residents of high-rise residential buildings. This research applied the social identity approach to emergencies to explore how group dynamics impact resident behaviour in high-rise building fire incidents. We conducted 16 semi-structured focus group interviews with 40 residents of UK high-rise buildings to explore how they had responded or would respond to a fire in their building. Using reflexive thematic analysis, we found that group processes underpinned who residents looked to for information about the fire and whose views were trusted when deciding response. Collective self-organisation among residents instead of immediately following the safety guidance for the building was a recurring theme across the focus groups. Most residents reported that they would provide and expect help from other residents to evacuate, including relying on others to inform them if evacuation was needed. However, residents who felt there was little social connection among the residen
Evacuation simulation is an effective way for exercising an evacuation plan. Various situations that may arise can be examined by computer simulations. Studying a human behavior in evacuation simulation is important to avoid the negative effect that may occur. We propose an evacuation model: "Evacuee's Dilemma", inspired by Prisoner's Dilemma in Game Theory. This model aims to describe helping behavior among evacuees. Evacuees are facing a dilemma to choose cooperate behavior: helping others and escaping together; or defect behavior: rush to exit. The dilemma occurs because offering help to other evacuees requires a cost: sacrificing their own resources. Therefore, helping other evacuees might risk their own life. However, if an evacuee chooses not to help, then the abnormal evacuees might not be able to survive. Unless there are other evacuees who offer help to the abnormal evacuees. We introduce Averaged Systemic Payoff in the evacuee's decision making. Multi-Agent Simulations are conducted with various settings. Simulation results reveal an interesting collective behavior. Rational evacuees increase the cooperate behavior under an extreme short time availability to evacuate. Ins
To monitor and predict the behaviour of a crowd, it is imperative that the technology used is based on an accurate understanding of crowd psychology. However, most simulations of evacuation scenarios rely on outdated assumptions about the way people behave or only consider the locomotion of pedestrian movement. We present a social model for pedestrian simulation based on self-categorisation processes during an emergency evacuation. We demonstrate the impact of this new model on the behaviour of pedestrians and on evacuation times. In addition to the Optimal Steps Model for locomotion, we add a realistic social model of collective behaviour.
Collective behavior framework is utilized to examine the evacuation of the World Trade&#13;\nCenter complex following the attacks of September 11. Using both first-person&#13;\nnewspaper accounts and media reports, the paper focuses on emerging norms in the&#13;\ndecision to evacuate as well as the evacuation process itself. Three key factors affected&#13;\nthe decision to evacuate: (1) social location, (2) the role of leaders, and (3) the level of&#13;\nperceived threat. Helping behavior, the definition of norms in the stairwells, and&#13;\nepisodes of deviant behavior as emerging norms were all evident in the evacuation&#13;\nprocess. Panic was not widely observed during the evacuation of the Twin Towers.&#13;\nImprovements made following the 1993 World Trade Center attack contributed to a more&#13;\nsuccessful evacuation.
Autonomous systems, such as drones, are critical for emergency mitigation, management, and recovery. They provide situational awareness and deliver communication services which effectively guide emergency responders' decision making. This combination of technology and people comprises a socio-technical system. Yet, focusing on the use of drone technology as a solely operational tool, underplays its potential to enhance coordination between the different agents involved in mass emergencies, both human and non-human. This paper proposes a new methodological approach that capitalizes on social identity principles to enable this coordination in an evacuation operation. In the proposed approach, an adaptive drone uses sensor data to infer the group membership of the survivors it encounters during the operation. A corpus of 200 interactions of survivors' talk during real-life emergencies was computationally classified as being indicative of a shared identity or personal/no identity. This classification model, then, informed a game-theoretic model of human-robot interactions. Bayesian Nash Equilibrium analysis determined the predicted behavior for the human agent and the strategy that the
People facing threat may evacuate, help others, share information, ignore the threat and the plight of others, or enact a combination of these behaviours. Accurate conceptual models of crowd behaviours must consider why and when these behaviours occur, as well as how people's responses may vary across different scenarios. Researchers have investigated crowd responses to threats using a variety of methods, such as interviews, observational analysis and virtual reality experiments. Each methodology offers benefits to understanding collective responses to threats, but each methodology also has limitations. Importantly, very little research has explored crowd responses in false alarm situations where crowd members misperceive that a threat exists. In this paper, we describe a new programme of work which combines approaches from safety engineering and crowd psychology to gain a thorough understanding of crowd behaviour in response to real and misperceived threats, and the processes underpinning the behaviour. We focus on how we identified and addressed the similarities and differences in our research questions, conceptual approaches to research, and methodological abilities. We demonstr
Existing psychological models of crowd behaviour were applied to examine emergency egress behaviour, and how this could facilitate the safe management of mass evacuations. Two interview-based studies of survivors' experiences of different emergencies were conducted. It was found that far from mass panic occurring, being in an emergency can create a common identity amongst those affected. A consequence of this is that people are cooperative and altruistic towards others - even when amongst strangers, and/or in life-threatening situations. The analysis has direct implications for how the Fire and Rescue Services manage mass evacuations. In line with earlier critiques, the concept of mass panic is considered to be a myth unsupported by existing evidence. Crowds in emergencies can be trusted to behave in more social ways than previously expected by some involved in emergency planning.
A small amount of literature has been produced on the study of panic spread in a large-scale emergency evacuation, especially that which involves rescue guidance. In a large-scale evacuation action, there are complicated interactions between people and the disaster environment, and it is very difficult to present such interactions in quantitative functions or specific values. In this paper, a qualitatively simulated approach to model and study the panic spread is proposed. First, the internal structure of the evacuation system is described and various internal and external phenomena related to the change of evacuees' behaviors in the evacuation process are qualitatively interpreted. Based on the qualitative knowledge, a qualitative simulation model of a large-scale evacuation system is established. The calculation results of inverse group matrix verify the rationality and stability of our model. According to the implementation of a series of scenarios with different input, some uncertainty factors that can affect the panic spread in the evacuation process are analyzed, in which the spread of disaster, the rescue guidance, and the normal emotional evacuees are mainly considered. Thi
Disaster myths are said to be widespread and consequential. However, there has been little research on whether those involved in public safety and emergency response believe them. A survey examined how far police officers, civilian safety professionals, sports event stewards and comparison samples from the public believe the myths "mass panic," "civil disorder," and "helplessness." Respondents endorsed the first two myths. However, they rejected the myth of helplessness and endorsed the view that emergency crowds display resilience. Despite these contradictions in stated beliefs, there was also evidence of ideological coherence: each model of mass emergency behavior (maladaptive vs. resilient) was linked to a model of crowd management (coercive and paternalistic vs. mass-democratic). The practical implications of these findings are discussed.
Building occupants perceive information about the surrounding environment and navigate for safety during emergency evacuation (egress). They often choose their actions by interacting with their social groups and observing the actions of the surrounding crowd. Most egress simulators, however, ignore individuals' crowd perceptions and social interactions. This paper presents a novel platform, SAFEgress (Social Agent For Egress), in which building occupants are modeled as agents who decide their evacuation actions on the basis of their knowledge of the building and their interactions with the social groups and the neighboring crowd. Results from the SAFEgress prototype show that both agents' familiarity with the building and social influence can significantly impact egress performance. By simulating different occupants' behaviors, architects and facility managers may better understand the influence of human and social factors on evacuation and consequently design safer buildings and egress procedures. Copyright
In this paper, we apply game theory to analyze interplay between emotions and rationality, to reduce the effect of herding during evacuation. The simulation model developed for this work incorporates the social behavior of the crowd to ensure an improved evacuation. This model is simulated for four strategies, built upon both social and technological aspects of decision-making, with varied sets of the agents' density and type being either rational or emotional. This work is evaluated both quantitatively and qualitatively using parameters such as simulation time, agents' distribution across exits, exit utilization, and panic. Mixed results were achieved in general; however, the game variation allowing more than one exit change showed an improvement over both variations of the game allowing a single exit change.
Collective false alarms can cause significant disruption, costly emergency response, and distress. Yet an adequate psychological explanation for these incidents is lacking. We interviewed 39 participants and analysed multiple secondary data sources from the 2017 false alarm in Oxford Street, UK, to develop a new explanation of this phenomenon. There was evidence that awareness of recent collectively self-relevant terrorist attacks lowered the threshold for interpreting ambiguous signals as signs of hostile threat. Interviewees also fled and hid after inferring threats from others' fear and flight responses. Cooperative behaviour was sporadic and was associated with an emergent sense of groupness that occurred in limited locations. The analysis suggests that crowd behaviour in false alarms has more in common with the meaningful behaviour typically found in real emergencies than with the image of uncontrolled 'mass panic' portrayed in news media. These findings have implications for policy in preparing the public for terrorist attacks.
To support the evacuation process of crowds from emergency situations, we have developed a wearable device, LifeBelt, for vibro tactile guidance of individuals in panic towards exits. Since visual and auditory perception is overwhelmed in situations of panic, exit sign and loudspeaker based evacuation often appears ineffective. LifeBelt as a coordinated navigation device builds on a subtle directional vibration stimulation to navigate and guide individuals to escape. This paper compares the effectiveness of a LifeBelt supported vs. non-supported evacuation from spaces with multiple exits. Based on an extended Moore's model of neighborhood for next step behavior, and a predicted shortest time to escape metric, we investigate on the efficiency effect of (i) individuals following the nearest exit (without LifeBelt), and (ii) individuals adhering LifeBelt recommendations towards the earliest escape exit. Large scale simulations show that even in situations of growing panic, LifeBelt improves evacuation efficiency by more than 34,5%.
Recent crowd disasters highlight the importance of properly planning and designing large urban events and public spaces to enhance the safety of people in a crowd during evacuations. Pedestrian crowd dynamics are empirically investigated with an interdisciplinary approach (i.e., social sciences, computer science, and traffic engineering) focusing on the effect of groups and their proxemic behavior and interactions while walking. Empirical evidence achieved from urban in-field observations and laboratory experiments are presented and compared. Results indicate that the proxemic behavior of walking groups has a negative effect on walking speed when flow is irregular (primarily because of the need for members to maintain spatial cohesion during locomotion). These results have important implications for the design of common metrics to characterize spatial interactions among pedestrians and for the validation of models to replicate crowd dynamics that consider the effects of groups under normal and emergency conditions.
Purpose It has been witnessed that many incidents of crowd evacuation have resulted in catastrophic results, claiming lives of hundreds of people. Most of these incidents were a result of localized herding that eventually turned into global panic. Many crowd evacuation models have been proposed with different aspects of interests. The purpose of this paper is to attempt to bring together many of these aspects to study evacuation dynamics. Design/methodology/approach The proposed agent-based model, in a hypothetical physical environment, uses perception maps for routing decisions which are constructed from agents' personal observations of the surroundings as well as information gathered through distant communication. Communication is governed by a trust model which measures the authenticity of the information being shared. Agents are of two types; emotional and rational. The trust model is combined with a game-theoretic model to resolve conflict of agents' own type with that of types of agents in the neighborhood. Findings Evacuation dynamics in different environmental and exit strategies are evaluated on the basis of reduced herding and evacuation time. Using this integrated inform
Crowd panic has incurred massive injuries and deaths throughout history; thus understanding it is particularly important in order to save human lives. Recently, numerous simulation methods have been contributed in order to provide insight into the design of evacuation planning strategies. In this paper, we integrate a social structure to the crowd mobility model for the purpose of investigating the influence of social bonds on collective behavior during panic. A macroscopic crowd panic model based on social science theories was integrated as an internal module to the microscopic mobility model. The resulting framework is tunable and permits the implementation of several panic scenarios. It is also designed to run in different situations for a better comprehension of panic-related phenomena. The results demonstrate the smoothness of our crowd flow model and the realism of evacuation during panic.
Egress of occupants from a facility is normally straightforward. Problems arise when an emergency is present and many occupants are attempting to egress as quickly as possible, at which point egress can become life threatening. There are many reported events in history where emergency egress resulted in extensive loss of life and injuries. Egress research depends heavily on computational modeling because ethical and safety concerns preclude running experiments involving emergency crowd evacuations. However, to date, existing egress models rarely take into account meaningful social interactions and adherence to cultural norms, both of which are commonly present among egressing occupants and have significant influence on their egress response. The objective of this study is to develop a new methodology to address this gap using an Agent-Based computational platform. A novel method, termed Scalar Field Method (SFM), is proposed to accomplish this goal. The new technique draws on an analogy to a charged particle in an electromagnetic field to simulate the decision making process of an agent as it navigates through a facility and considers social interactions in its quest to egress. Two
SUMMARY On 11 September 2001, one of the largest workplace evacuations in the U.S. history took place. The evacuation was largely successful: an estimated 87% of all occupants in World Trade Center (WTC) Towers 1 and 2 exited in less than two hours. Evacuation times, however, were highly variable and not entirely explained by the engineering parameters of the buildings. To understand the complexity of factors that potentially influenced the evacuation time on 11 September, 2001, an interdisciplinary research study was conducted by public health scientists from the Mailman School of Public Health at the Columbia University in the New York City. Analysis of survey data collected from a sample of 1444 evacuees identified several facilitators and barriers to length of time to initiate and fully evacuate from WTC Towers 1 and 2. At the individual level, these included sociodemographic and occupational variables, health status, sensory cues, risk perception, delaying behaviors, and following a group or an emergent leader. At the organizational level, factors included emergency preparedness safety climate variables. Structural (environmental) factors included egress route barriers, poor s
A set of questionnaire is designed to investigate the panic related psychology and behaviors of evacuation crowds in subway emergencies. Field survey at a subway station in Nanjing, China is conducted. Based on 141 valid questionnaire samples, the correlations between some personnel characteristics and the evacuation panic are investigated. It is found that the gender, the education level and carrying-on luggage have strong correlation with the panic related psychology and behaviors, while the age and the safety knowledge do not have so strong correlativity as previous work indicated. Besides, different opinions of this work and previous work about the influence of education level on the evacuation panic are also compared.
To improve communication during emergencies, this research introduces an agent-based modeling (ABM) method to test the effect of psychological emergency communication strategies on evacuation performance. We follow a generative social science approach in which agent-based simulations allow for testing different candidate solutions. Unlike traditional methods, such as laboratory experiments and field observations, ABM simulation allows high-risk and infrequent scenarios to be empirically examined before applying the lessons in the real world. This is essential, as emergency communication with diverse crowds can be challenging due to language barriers, conflicting social identities, different cultural mindsets, and crowd demographics. Improving emergency communication could therefore improve evacuations, reduce injuries, and ultimately save lives. We demonstrate this ABM method by determining the effectiveness of three communication strategies for different crowd compositions in transport terminals: (1) dynamic emergency exit floor lighting directing people to exits, (2) staff guiding people to exits with verbal and physical instructions, and (3) public announcements in English. The
Evacuees are likely to respond and move forming groups. However specific data about grouping is generally unavailable and the relationship between response and movement times and specific groupings are unknown. Using a simple method, we measure behavioural cohesion of occupants during evacuation processes. The case study involves using the method in a bus station, a sport centre and a library. Results suggest that proximity (visual/verbal contact) is an important factor but not decisive in the formation of evacuation groups. Social ties and whether occupants share a target and/or an activity before the alarm are also deemed to be important factors. This study provides an exciting opportunity to advance our knowledge of social influence and group formation during evacuation.
When addressing public behaviour during mass emergencies and disasters, it is important to consider that such emergencies and disasters will often involve crowds. An understanding of emergency crowds is therefore crucial in ensuring that incidents are managed as effectively as possible. The elaborated social identity model of crowd behaviour emphasizes that the way in which emergency responders manage crowds during an incident can play a crucial role in determining how members of the public react. Specifically, if affected casualties see emergency responders' instructions and actions as legitimate, this will result in increased identification and cooperation between emergency responders and members of the public. In this paper, we show how the social identity approach can be applied to best explain crowd behaviour during mass emergencies and disasters, and how this improved theoretical understanding can be used to generate specific recommendations for operational good practice during incident management.
People in disaster and emergency situations (e.g., building fires) tend to adhere to the social obligations and expectations that are embedded in their preexisting roles and relationships. Accordingly, people survive or perish in groups-specifically, alongside those to whom they were connected before the situation emerged. This article uses social network analysis to expand on this collective behavior account. Specifically, we consider structural heterogeneity with respect to the internal configurations of social ties that compose small groups facing these situations together. Some groups are composed of cohesive subsets of members who can split off from each other during evacuation without violating their group's internal role-based expectations. We argue that groups that possess this "breakaway" structure can respond to emergencies more flexibly. We explore this using data from the Beverly Hills Supper Club fire of 1977, which killed 165 people. Our data include 303 groups ("parties") that consisted of 746 people who were present in the dining room where most of the fatalities occurred. Fatality rates were significantly lower in groups that were internally structured suc
Evacuation accidents have been frequent in recent years, and during evacuation we know that people do not always act selfishly. This study aims to investigate the effect of helping behavior on evacuation efficiency. Through the fuzzy logic reasoning method combined with the cellular automata (CA) model, we investigated the role of helping behavior on evacuation efficiency in different contexts and came up with the following results. Firstly, we found that helping behavior has a positive effect on evacuation efficiency to some extent and can significantly reduce evacuation time. At an average personnel density of approximately 1.38 persons per square meter, individuals involved in helping behavior are able to provide assistance and speed up the evacuation process. However, when the personnel density is too high, helping behavior may instead reduce evacuation efficiency. This may be attributable to the blockage of exits in high-density situations, resulting in a weakening of the synergistic effect of helping behavior. The findings elucidate the dual-edged nature of helping behavior in evacuations and emphasize the importance of strategic planning and crowd management to harness its p
